=== Taletrectinib (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5610)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Taletrectinib is a tyrosine kinase inhibitor which inhibits ROS1, including ROS1 resistance mutations.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 600 mg PO once daily.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): dizziness, dysesthesia, dysgeusia, hypoesthesia, paresthesias, peripheral neuropathy, vertigo, anemia, lymphopenia, neutropenia, hyperkalemia, hypernatremia, hypocalcemia

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Monitor patients for new or worsening respiratory symptoms including fever, cough, or dyspnea. [Immediately interrupt taletrectinib therapy in patients with new or worsening respiratory symptoms. A dose reduction or permanent discontinuation of therapy may be necessary for recurrent or severe... Patient counseling: Minimize sun exposure and use sun protection, including broad-spectrum sunscreen, during treatment with taletrectinib and for at least 5 days after discontinuation. Emetic risk: Moderate/high

Brand Names
  - IBTROZI

Dosage Forms
  - IBTROZI 200mg Immediate-Release Capsule

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Related Indications
      Heading
      for the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic ROS1-positive non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC)
      Routes
        Heading
        Oral dosage
        Route Age Groups
          Heading
          Adults
          Dosage Description
          600 mg PO once daily until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. Treatment with taletrectinib resulted in an overall response rate (ORR) of 85% to 90% (complete response [CR], 5% to 7%) in patients with locally advanced or metastatic, ROS1-positive NSCLC who had not previously received treatment with a ROS1 tyrosine-kinase inhibitor (TKI), in 2 multicenter, single-arm, open-label clinical trials (TRUST-I or TRUST II). The median duration of response in TRUST-I was not reached (NR) (95% CI, 30.4 to NR), while the median duration of response in TRUST II was not included due to the short duration of follow-up (range, 1.4+ to 30.4+ months); the duration of response was at least 12 months in 63% to 72% of ROS1 TKI-naive patients. The ORR was 52% to 62% (CR, 11% or less) in patients with ROS1 TKI-pretreated patients in these trials. The median duration of response in TRUST-I was 13.2 months (94% CI, 7.7 to 24.9 months), with a duration of at least 6 months in 74% to 83% of patients, and a duration of at least 12 months in 44% to 45% of patients.
    Routes
    Heading
    For the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC)

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    pulmonary disease
    General Information
    Use taletrectinib with caution in patients who have a history of pre-existing pulmonary disease; severe pneumonitis/interstitial lung disease has been reported in patients treated with taletrectinib. Monitor patients for new or worsening respiratory symptoms including fever, cough, or dyspnea. [Immediately interrupt taletrectinib therapy in patients with new or worsening respiratory symptoms. A dose reduction or permanent discontinuation of therapy may be necessary for recurrent or severe pneumonitis.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    bradycardia, cardiomyopathy, congenital long QT syndrome, coronary artery disease, females, geriatric, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, QT prolongation
    General Information
    Avoid use of taletrectinib in people with baseline QT prolongation or who have conditions that may increase the risk of QT prolongation or torsade de pointes, including bradycardia, congenital long QT syndrome, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, geriatric adults, females, structural abnormalities that interfere with electrical conduction (e.g., cardiomyopathy, coronary artery disease, ischemic heart disease), or in those who have other additional risk factors for QT prolongation or torsade de pointes. The use of other medications that have been associated with QT prolongation or torsade de pointes may further increase risk. If use is necessary, monitor electrocardiograms and electrolytes at baseline and then periodically thereafter and as clinically indicated; adjust the frequency of monitoring based on risk factors for QT prolongation. Significant QTc interval prolongation may occur when taletrectinib is taken with food, strong and moderate CYP3A inhibitors, and/or drugs with a known potential to prolong QTc; administer taletrectinib on an empty stomach and avoid coadministration with strong and moderate CYP3A inhibitors and/or drugs with known potential to prolong QTc. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Pregnancy should be avoided during taletrectinib treatment and for at least 3 weeks after the last dose. Although there are no adequately controlled human studies in pregnancy, taletrectinib can cause fetal harm or death when administered during pregnancy based on its literature reports in humans with congenital mutations leading to changes in tropomyosin receptor kinase (TRK) signaling, mechanism of action, and animal studies. Published reports of humans with congenital mutations in TRK pathway proteins suggest that decreases in TRK-mediated signaling are correlated with obesity, developmental delays, cognitive impairment, insensitivity to pain, and anhidrosis. In animal reproduction studies, oral administration of taletrectinib to pregnant rats and rabbits during the period of organogenesis resulted in embryofetal deaths and structural abnormalities (e.g., abnormal ossification of the pelvis, undeveloped or no development of eyes, nose, and mouth, ventricular malformations, thoracic vascular malformations, and skull malformations) at exposures that were below or equal to the human exposure based on AUC at the recommended dose. Individuals who are pregnant or who may become pregnant while receiving taletrectinib should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus.
    Headline
    people who can cause pregnancy in others, people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel people about the reproductive risk associated with taletrectinib. People who may become pregnant should avoid pregnancy and use effective contraception during and for 3 weeks after treatment with taletrectinib. People who can cause pregnancy in others should use effective contraception during and for 3 weeks after treatment with taletrectinib. People who may become pregnant should undergo pregnancy testing prior to initiation of taletrectinib. Individuals who become pregnant while receiving taletrectinib should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus. Although there are no data regarding the effect of taletrectinib on human fertility, male and female infertility has been observed in animal studies. The effects on animal infertility were reversible.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Due to the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from taletrectinib, advise individuals to discontinue breast-feeding during treatment and for 3 weeks after the final dose. It is not known whether taletrectinib is present in human milk, although many drugs are excreted in human milk.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Pregnancy should be avoided during taletrectinib treatment and for at least 3 weeks after the last dose. Although there are no adequately controlled human studies in pregnancy, taletrectinib can cause fetal harm or death when administered during pregnancy based on its literature reports in humans with congenital mutations leading to changes in tropomyosin receptor kinase (TRK) signaling, mechanism of action, and animal studies. Published reports of humans with congenital mutations in TRK pathway proteins suggest that decreases in TRK-mediated signaling are correlated with obesity, developmental delays, cognitive impairment, insensitivity to pain, and anhidrosis. In animal reproduction studies, oral administration of taletrectinib to pregnant rats and rabbits during the period of organogenesis resulted in embryofetal deaths and structural abnormalities (e.g., abnormal ossification of the pelvis, undeveloped or no development of eyes, nose, and mouth, ventricular malformations, thoracic vascular malformations, and skull malformations) at exposures that were below or equal to the human exposure based on AUC at the recommended dose. Individuals who are pregnant or who may become pregnant while receiving taletrectinib should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Due to the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from taletrectinib, advise individuals to discontinue breast-feeding during treatment and for 3 weeks after the final dose. It is not known whether taletrectinib is present in human milk, although many drugs are excreted in human milk.

Interactions
Adagrasib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and adagrasib due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate, adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased taletrectinib overall exposure by 3.3-fold.
Alfuzosin: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and alfuzosin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Aluminum Hydroxide: (Moderate) Separate the administration of taletrectinib and locally acting antacids by at least 2 hours. Simultaneous coadministration may interfere with taletrectinib absorption and decrease taletrectinib exposure and efficacy.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Carbonate: (Moderate) Separate the administration of taletrectinib and locally acting antacids by at least 2 hours. Simultaneous coadministration may interfere with taletrectinib absorption and decrease taletrectinib exposure and efficacy.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Separate the administration of taletrectinib and locally acting antacids by at least 2 hours. Simultaneous coadministration may interfere with taletrectinib absorption and decrease taletrectinib exposure and efficacy.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Separate the administration of taletrectinib and locally acting antacids by at least 2 hours. Simultaneous coadministration may interfere with taletrectinib absorption and decrease taletrectinib exposure and efficacy.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Trisilicate: (Moderate) Separate the administration of taletrectinib and locally acting antacids by at least 2 hours. Simultaneous coadministration may interfere with taletrectinib absorption and decrease taletrectinib exposure and efficacy.
Amiodarone: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and amiodarone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Due to the extremely long half-life of amiodarone, a drug interaction is possible for days to weeks after drug discontinuation.
Amisulpride: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and amisulpride increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Amobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced taletrectinib overall exposure by 86%.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate, clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased taletrectinib overall exposure by 3.3-fold. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib oral absorption is pH dependent and PPIs alter gastric pH. Concomitant use with a PPI reduced taletrectinib overall exposure by 40%.
Anagrelide: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and anagrelide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Antacids: (Moderate) Separate the administration of taletrectinib and locally acting antacids by at least 2 hours. Simultaneous coadministration may interfere with taletrectinib absorption and decrease taletrectinib exposure and efficacy.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced taletrectinib overall exposure by 86%.
Apomorphine: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and apomorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and aprepitant/fosaprepitant due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for taletrectinib-related adverse effects. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and aprepitant/fosaprepitant is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase taletrectinib overall exposure by up to 2.6-fold.
ARIPiprazole: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and aripiprazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Arsenic Trioxide: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and arsenic trioxide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Artemether; Lumefantrine: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and artemether increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and lumefantrine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Asenapine: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and asenapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced taletrectinib overall exposure by 86%.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Separate the administration of taletrectinib and locally acting antacids, such as oral sodium bicarbonate, by at least 2 hours. Simultaneous coadministration may interfere with taletrectinib absorption and decrease taletrectinib exposure and efficacy.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib oral absorption is pH dependent and PPIs alter gastric pH. Concomitant use with a PPI reduced taletrectinib overall exposure by 40%.
Atazanavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and atazanavir due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for taletrectinib-related adverse effects. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased taletrectinib overall exposure by 3.3-fold.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and atazanavir due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for taletrectinib-related adverse effects. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased taletrectinib overall exposure by 3.3-fold. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and cobicistat due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for taletrectinib-related adverse effects. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased taletrectinib overall exposure by 3.3-fold.
Atomoxetine: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Avacopan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and avacopan due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for taletrectinib-related adverse effects. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase taletrectinib overall exposure by up to 2.6-fold.
Azithromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and azithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Barbiturates: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced taletrectinib overall exposure by 86%.
Bedaquiline: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and bedaquiline increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Berotralstat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and berotralstat due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for taletrectinib-related adverse effects. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and berotralstat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase taletrectinib overall exposure by up to 2.6-fold.
Bexarotene: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and bexarotene. Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and bexarotene is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease taletrectinib overall exposure by 66%.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and lenacapavir due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for taletrectinib-related adverse effects. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase taletrectinib overall exposure by up to 2.6-fold.
Bismuth Subcitrate Potassium; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and metronidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and metronidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Bosentan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and bosentan. Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and bosentan is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease taletrectinib overall exposure by 66%.
Buprenorphine: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and buprenorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and buprenorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced taletrectinib overall exposure by 86%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced taletrectinib overall exposure by 86%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced taletrectinib overall exposure by 86%.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced taletrectinib overall exposure by 86%.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and rilpivirine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose.
Calcium Carbonate: (Moderate) Separate the administration of taletrectinib and locally acting antacids, such as oral calcium carbonate, by at least 2 hours. Simultaneous coadministration may interfere with taletrectinib absorption and decrease taletrectinib exposure and efficacy.
Calcium Carbonate; Famotidine; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and H2-receptor antagonists (H2RAs). Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib oral absorption is pH dependent and H2RAs alter gastric pH. (Moderate) Separate the administration of taletrectinib and locally acting antacids, such as oral calcium carbonate, by at least 2 hours. Simultaneous coadministration may interfere with taletrectinib absorption and decrease taletrectinib exposure and efficacy.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Separate the administration of taletrectinib and locally acting antacids, such as oral calcium carbonate, by at least 2 hours. Simultaneous coadministration may interfere with taletrectinib absorption and decrease taletrectinib exposure and efficacy.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Separate the administration of taletrectinib and locally acting antacids, such as oral calcium carbonate, by at least 2 hours. Simultaneous coadministration may interfere with taletrectinib absorption and decrease taletrectinib exposure and efficacy.
Calcium Carbonate; Simethicone: (Moderate) Separate the administration of taletrectinib and locally acting antacids, such as oral calcium carbonate, by at least 2 hours. Simultaneous coadministration may interfere with taletrectinib absorption and decrease taletrectinib exposure and efficacy.
Calcium; Vitamin D: (Moderate) Separate the administration of taletrectinib and locally acting antacids, such as oral calcium carbonate, by at least 2 hours. Simultaneous coadministration may interfere with taletrectinib absorption and decrease taletrectinib exposure and efficacy.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and carbamazepine. Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and carbamazepine is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced taletrectinib overall exposure by 86%.
Cenobamate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and cenobamate. Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and cenobamate is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease taletrectinib overall exposure by 66%.
Ceritinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and ceritinib due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate, ceritinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased taletrectinib overall exposure by 3.3-fold.
Chloramphenicol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and chloramphenicol due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for taletrectinib-related adverse effects. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased taletrectinib overall exposure by 3.3-fold.
Chloroquine: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and chloroquine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
chlorproMAZINE: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and chlorpromazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Cimetidine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and H2-receptor antagonists (H2RAs). Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib oral absorption is pH dependent and H2RAs alter gastric pH.
Ciprofloxacin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and ciprofloxacin due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate, ciprofloxacin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase taletrectinib overall exposure by up to 2.6-fold.
Cisapride: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and cisapride due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Citalopram: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and citalopram increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate, clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased taletrectinib overall exposure by 3.3-fold.
Clofazimine: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and clofazimine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
cloZAPine: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and clozapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and cobicistat due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for taletrectinib-related adverse effects. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased taletrectinib overall exposure by 3.3-fold.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and promethazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and promethazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Conivaptan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and conivaptan due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for taletrectinib-related adverse effects. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and conivaptan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase taletrectinib overall exposure by up to 2.6-fold.
Crizotinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and crizotinib due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate, crizotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase taletrectinib overall exposure by up to 2.6-fold.
cycloSPORINE: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and cyclosporine due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for taletrectinib-related adverse effects. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and cyclosporine is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase taletrectinib overall exposure by up to 2.6-fold.
Dabrafenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and dabrafenib. Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and dabrafenib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease taletrectinib overall exposure by 66%.
Darunavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and darunavir due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for taletrectinib-related adverse effects. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased taletrectinib overall exposure by 3.3-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and cobicistat due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for taletrectinib-related adverse effects. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased taletrectinib overall exposure by 3.3-fold. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and darunavir due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for taletrectinib-related adverse effects. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased taletrectinib overall exposure by 3.3-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and cobicistat due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for taletrectinib-related adverse effects. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased taletrectinib overall exposure by 3.3-fold. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and darunavir due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for taletrectinib-related adverse effects. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased taletrectinib overall exposure by 3.3-fold.
Dasatinib: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and dasatinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Degarelix: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Desflurane: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dexlansoprazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib oral absorption is pH dependent and PPIs alter gastric pH. Concomitant use with a PPI reduced taletrectinib overall exposure by 40%.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and dexmedetomidine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and quinidine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
dilTIAZem: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and diltiazem due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for taletrectinib-related adverse effects. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and diltiazem is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase taletrectinib overall exposure by up to 2.6-fold.
Disopyramide: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and disopyramide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dofetilide: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and dofetilide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and rilpivirine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose.
Donepezil: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and donepezil increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and donepezil increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dordaviprone: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and taletrectinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dronedarone: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and dronedarone due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate, dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase taletrectinib overall exposure by up to 2.6-fold.
droPERidol: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and droperidol increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Duvelisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and duvelisib due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for taletrectinib-related adverse effects. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and duvelisib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase taletrectinib overall exposure by up to 2.6-fold.
Efavirenz: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and efavirenz due to the risk for decreased taletrectinib exposure and efficacy; concomitant use may also increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate, efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use is predicted to decrease taletrectinib overall exposure by 66%.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and efavirenz due to the risk for decreased taletrectinib exposure and efficacy; concomitant use may also increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate, efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use is predicted to decrease taletrectinib overall exposure by 66%.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and efavirenz due to the risk for decreased taletrectinib exposure and efficacy; concomitant use may also increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate, efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use is predicted to decrease taletrectinib overall exposure by 66%.
Elagolix: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and elagolix. Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and elagolix is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease taletrectinib overall exposure by 66%.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and elagolix. Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and elagolix is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease taletrectinib overall exposure by 66%.
Eliglustat: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and eliglustat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and cobicistat due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for taletrectinib-related adverse effects. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased taletrectinib overall exposure by 3.3-fold.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and cobicistat due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for taletrectinib-related adverse effects. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased taletrectinib overall exposure by 3.3-fold.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and rilpivirine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and rilpivirine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and encorafenib due to the risk for decreased taletrectinib exposure and efficacy; concomitant use may also increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate, encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced taletrectinib overall exposure by 86%.
Ensitrelvir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and ensitrelvir due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for taletrectinib-related adverse effects. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased taletrectinib overall exposure by 3.3-fold.
Entrectinib: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and entrectinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and enzalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced taletrectinib overall exposure by 86%.
eriBULin: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Erythromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and erythromycin due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate, erythromycin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use is predicted to increase taletrectinib overall exposure by up to 2.6-fold.
Escitalopram: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and escitalopram increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Eslicarbazepine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and eslicarbazepine. Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and eslicarbazepine is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease taletrectinib overall exposure by 66%.
Esomeprazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib oral absorption is pH dependent and PPIs alter gastric pH. Concomitant use with a PPI reduced taletrectinib overall exposure by 40%.
Etrasimod: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and etrasimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Etravirine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and etravirine. Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and etravirine is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease taletrectinib overall exposure by 66%.
Famotidine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and H2-receptor antagonists (H2RAs). Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib oral absorption is pH dependent and H2RAs alter gastric pH.
Fedratinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and fedratinib due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for taletrectinib-related adverse effects. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and fedratinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase taletrectinib overall exposure by up to 2.6-fold.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and fexinidazole due to the risk for decreased taletrectinib exposure and efficacy; concomitant use may also increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate, fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease taletrectinib overall exposure by 66%.
Fingolimod: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and fingolimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Flecainide: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and flecainide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fluconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and fluconazole due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate, fluconazole is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use is predicted to increase taletrectinib overall exposure by up to 2.6-fold.
FLUoxetine: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and fluoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
fluPHENAZine: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of taletrectinib and fluphenazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
fluvoxaMINE: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and fluvoxamine due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate, fluvoxamine is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase taletrectinib overall exposure by up to 2.6-fold.
Fosamprenavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and fosamprenavir due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for taletrectinib-related adverse effects. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and fosamprenavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase taletrectinib overall exposure by up to 2.6-fold.
Foscarnet: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and foscarnet increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosfomycin (injectable): (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and taletrectinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosfomycin: (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and taletrectinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and phenytoin. Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced taletrectinib overall exposure by 86%.
Fostemsavir: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and fostemsavir increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose.
Gemifloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and gemifloxacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Gemtuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and gemtuzumab ozogamicin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Gepirone: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and gepirone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Gepotidacin: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and gepotidacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Gilteritinib: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and gilteritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Givinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and givinostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with givinostat is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 5 times the maximum recommended dose.
Glasdegib: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and glasdegib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Goserelin: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., goserelin) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Granisetron: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and granisetron increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Grapefruit juice: (Major) Advise patients to avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice during taletrectinib treatment due to the risk of increased taletrectinib exposure and adverse reactions. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and grapefruit juice is a CYP3A inhibitor.
H2-blockers: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and H2-receptor antagonists (H2RAs). Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib oral absorption is pH dependent and H2RAs alter gastric pH.
Halogenated Anesthetics: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Haloperidol: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and haloperidol increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The intravenous route may carry a higher risk for haloperidol-induced QT/QTc prolongation than other routes of administration.
Histrelin: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., histrelin) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Hydroxychloroquine: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and hydroxychloroquine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
hydrOXYzine: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and hydroxyzine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and H2-receptor antagonists (H2RAs). Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib oral absorption is pH dependent and H2RAs alter gastric pH.
Ibutilide: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and ibutilide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Idelalisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and idelalisib due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for taletrectinib-related adverse effects. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and idelalisib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased taletrectinib overall exposure by 3.3-fold.
Iloperidone: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and iloperidone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Imatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and imatinib due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for taletrectinib-related adverse effects. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and imatinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase taletrectinib overall exposure by up to 2.6-fold.
Inotuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and inotuzumab ozogamicin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Isavuconazonium: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and isavuconazonium due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for taletrectinib-related adverse effects. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and isavuconazonium is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase taletrectinib overall exposure by up to 2.6-fold.
Isoflurane: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Itraconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and itraconazole due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate, itraconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use increased taletrectinib overall exposure by 3.3-fold.
Ivosidenib: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and ivosidenib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and ketoconazole due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate, ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased taletrectinib overall exposure by 3.3-fold.
Lansoprazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib oral absorption is pH dependent and PPIs alter gastric pH. Concomitant use with a PPI reduced taletrectinib overall exposure by 40%.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate, clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased taletrectinib overall exposure by 3.3-fold. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib oral absorption is pH dependent and PPIs alter gastric pH. Concomitant use with a PPI reduced taletrectinib overall exposure by 40%.
Lapatinib: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and lapatinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and lefamulin due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate, lefamulin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase taletrectinib overall exposure by up to 2.6-fold.
Lenacapavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and lenacapavir due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for taletrectinib-related adverse effects. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase taletrectinib overall exposure by up to 2.6-fold.
Lenvatinib: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and lenvatinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Letermovir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and letermovir due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for taletrectinib-related adverse effects. The use of combination letermovir plus cyclosporine may further increase this risk. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate, letermovir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and combination letermovir plus cyclosporine is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase taletrectinib overall exposure by up to 2.6-fold. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased taletrectinib overall exposure by 3.3-fold.
Leuprolide: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., leuprolide) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
levoFLOXacin: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and levofloxacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Levoketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and ketoconazole due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate, ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased taletrectinib overall exposure by 3.3-fold.
Lithium: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and lithium increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Lofexidine: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and lofexidine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and lonafarnib due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for taletrectinib-related adverse effects. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased taletrectinib overall exposure by 3.3-fold.
Loperamide: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and loperamide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and loperamide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and lopinavir; ritonavir due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate, lopinavir; ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased taletrectinib overall exposure by 3.3-fold. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and ritonavir due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for taletrectinib-related adverse effects. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased taletrectinib overall exposure by 3.3-fold.
Lorlatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and lorlatinib. Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease taletrectinib overall exposure by 66%.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced taletrectinib overall exposure by 86%.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced taletrectinib overall exposure by 86%.
Macimorelin: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and macimorelin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Separate the administration of taletrectinib and locally acting antacids by at least 2 hours. Simultaneous coadministration may interfere with taletrectinib absorption and decrease taletrectinib exposure and efficacy.
Magnesium Salts: (Moderate) Separate the administration of taletrectinib and locally acting antacids by at least 2 hours. Simultaneous coadministration may interfere with taletrectinib absorption and decrease taletrectinib exposure and efficacy.
Mavorixafor: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and mavorixafor increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Mefloquine: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and mefloquine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Methadone: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and methadone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Methohexital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced taletrectinib overall exposure by 86%.
metroNIDAZOLE: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and metronidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Midostaurin: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and midostaurin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and mifepristone due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate, mifepristone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased taletrectinib overall exposure by 3.3-fold.
Mirtazapine: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and mirtazapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Mitotane: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced taletrectinib overall exposure by 86%.
Mobocertinib: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and mobocertinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Moxifloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and moxifloxacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Nafcillin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and nafcillin. Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and nafcillin is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease taletrectinib overall exposure by 66%.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib oral absorption is pH dependent and PPIs alter gastric pH. Concomitant use with a PPI reduced taletrectinib overall exposure by 40%.
Nefazodone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and nefazodone due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for taletrectinib-related adverse effects. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and nefazodone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased taletrectinib overall exposure by 3.3-fold.
Nelfinavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and nelfinavir due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for taletrectinib-related adverse effects. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and nelfinavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased taletrectinib overall exposure by 3.3-fold.
Netupitant, Fosnetupitant; Palonosetron: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and netupitant due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for taletrectinib-related adverse effects. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and netupitant is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase taletrectinib overall exposure by up to 2.6-fold.
Nilotinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and nilotinib due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate, nilotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase taletrectinib overall exposure by up to 2.6-fold.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and ritonavir due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for taletrectinib-related adverse effects. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased taletrectinib overall exposure by 3.3-fold.
Nirogacestat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and nirogacestat due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for taletrectinib-related adverse effects. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and nirogacestat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase taletrectinib overall exposure by up to 2.6-fold.
Nizatidine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and H2-receptor antagonists (H2RAs). Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib oral absorption is pH dependent and H2RAs alter gastric pH.
Ofloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and ofloxacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
OLANZapine: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and olanzapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and fluoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and olanzapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and olanzapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib oral absorption is pH dependent and PPIs alter gastric pH. Concomitant use with a PPI reduced taletrectinib overall exposure by 40%.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib oral absorption is pH dependent and PPIs alter gastric pH. Concomitant use with a PPI reduced taletrectinib overall exposure by 40%. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and rifabutin. Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease taletrectinib overall exposure by 66%.
Omeprazole; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib oral absorption is pH dependent and PPIs alter gastric pH. Concomitant use with a PPI reduced taletrectinib overall exposure by 40%. (Moderate) Separate the administration of taletrectinib and locally acting antacids, such as oral sodium bicarbonate, by at least 2 hours. Simultaneous coadministration may interfere with taletrectinib absorption and decrease taletrectinib exposure and efficacy.
Ondansetron: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and ondansetron increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Do not exceed 16 mg of IV ondansetron in a single dose; the degree of QT prolongation associated with ondansetron significantly increases above this dose.
Osilodrostat: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and osilodrostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Osimertinib: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and osimertinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Oxaliplatin: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and oxaliplatin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ozanimod: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and ozanimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ozanimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Pacritinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and pacritinib due to the risk for decreased taletrectinib exposure and efficacy; concomitant use may also increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate, pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease taletrectinib overall exposure by 66%.
Paliperidone: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and paliperidone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Panobinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and panobinostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Pantoprazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib oral absorption is pH dependent and PPIs alter gastric pH. Concomitant use with a PPI reduced taletrectinib overall exposure by 40%.
Pasireotide: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and pasireotide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and pazopanib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Pentamidine: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and systemic pentamidine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
PENTobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced taletrectinib overall exposure by 86%.
Perphenazine: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of taletrectinib and perphenazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of taletrectinib and perphenazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Pexidartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and pexidartinib. Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and pexidartinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease taletrectinib overall exposure by 66%.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced taletrectinib overall exposure by 86%.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced taletrectinib overall exposure by 86%.
Phenytoin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and phenytoin. Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced taletrectinib overall exposure by 86%.
Pimavanserin: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and pimavanserin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Pimozide: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and pimozide due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Pitolisant: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and pitolisant increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ponesimod: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and ponesimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ponesimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Posaconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and posaconazole due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate, posaconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased taletrectinib overall exposure by 3.3-fold.
Primaquine: (Major) Concomitant use of primaquine and taletrectinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Primidone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced taletrectinib overall exposure by 86%.
Procainamide: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and procainamide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Prochlorperazine: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of taletrectinib and prochlorperazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and promethazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and promethazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and promethazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Propafenone: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and propafenone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Proton pump inhibitors: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib oral absorption is pH dependent and PPIs alter gastric pH. Concomitant use with a PPI reduced taletrectinib overall exposure by 40%.
QUEtiapine: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and quetiapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
quiNIDine: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and quinidine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
quiNINE: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and quinine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Quizartinib: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and quizartinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
RABEprazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib oral absorption is pH dependent and PPIs alter gastric pH. Concomitant use with a PPI reduced taletrectinib overall exposure by 40%.
Ranolazine: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and ranolazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Relacorilant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and relacorilant due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for taletrectinib-related adverse effects. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased taletrectinib overall exposure by 3.3-fold.
Relugolix: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and repotrectinib. Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease taletrectinib overall exposure by 66%.
Revumenib: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and revumenib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ribociclib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and ribociclib due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate, ribociclib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of 400 mg/day and a strong CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of at least 600 mg/day, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase taletrectinib overall exposure by up to 2.6-fold. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased taletrectinib overall exposure by 3.3-fold.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and ribociclib due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate, ribociclib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of 400 mg/day and a strong CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of at least 600 mg/day, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase taletrectinib overall exposure by up to 2.6-fold. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased taletrectinib overall exposure by 3.3-fold.
Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and rifabutin. Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease taletrectinib overall exposure by 66%.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and rifampin. Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use reduced taletrectinib overall exposure by 86%.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and rifapentine. Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced taletrectinib overall exposure by 86%.
Rilpivirine: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and rilpivirine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose.
Rilzabrutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and rilzabrutinib due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for taletrectinib-related adverse effects. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase taletrectinib overall exposure by up to 2.6-fold.
risperiDONE: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and risperidone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ritlecitinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and ritlecitinib due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for taletrectinib-related adverse effects. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase taletrectinib overall exposure by up to 2.6-fold.
Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and ritonavir due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for taletrectinib-related adverse effects. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased taletrectinib overall exposure by 3.3-fold.
romiDEPsin: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and romidepsin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Saquinavir: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and saquinavir due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate, saquinavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased taletrectinib overall exposure by 3.3-fold.
Secobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced taletrectinib overall exposure by 86%.
Selpercatinib: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and selpercatinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Sertraline: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and sertraline increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with sertraline is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Sevoflurane: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Siponimod: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and siponimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Separate the administration of taletrectinib and locally acting antacids, such as oral sodium bicarbonate, by at least 2 hours. Simultaneous coadministration may interfere with taletrectinib absorption and decrease taletrectinib exposure and efficacy.
Solifenacin: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and solifenacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
SORAfenib: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and sorafenib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Sotalol: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and sotalol increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Sotorasib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and sotorasib. Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and sotorasib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease taletrectinib overall exposure by 66%.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and St. John's wort. Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and St. John's wort is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced taletrectinib overall exposure by 86%.
SUNItinib: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and sunitinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tacrolimus: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and tacrolimus increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tamoxifen: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and tamoxifen increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Telavancin: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and telavancin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tetrabenazine: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and tetrabenazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Thioridazine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and thioridazine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Tipranavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and tipranavir due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for taletrectinib-related adverse effects. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and tipranavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased taletrectinib overall exposure by 3.3-fold.
Tolterodine: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and tolterodine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The risk for tolterodine-associated QT/QTc prolongation may be increased in poor CYP2D6 metabolizers.
Toremifene: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and toremifene increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and verapamil due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for taletrectinib-related adverse effects. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use is predicted to increase taletrectinib overall exposure by up to 2.6-fold.
traZODone: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and trazodone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Triclabendazole: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and triclabendazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Trifluoperazine: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of taletrectinib and trifluoperazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Triptorelin: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., triptorelin) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tucatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and tucatinib due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for taletrectinib-related adverse effects. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased taletrectinib overall exposure by 3.3-fold.
Vandetanib: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and vandetanib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Vardenafil: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and vardenafil increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Vemurafenib: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and vemurafenib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Venlafaxine: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and venlafaxine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Vepdegestrant: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and taletrectinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Verapamil: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and verapamil due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for taletrectinib-related adverse effects. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use is predicted to increase taletrectinib overall exposure by up to 2.6-fold.
Voclosporin: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and voclosporin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with voclosporin is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate, clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased taletrectinib overall exposure by 3.3-fold.
Voriconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and voriconazole due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate, voriconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased taletrectinib overall exposure by 3.3-fold.
Vorinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and vorinostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Voxelotor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and voxelotor due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for taletrectinib-related adverse effects. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase taletrectinib overall exposure by up to 2.6-fold.
Zidesamtinib: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and taletrectinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ziftomenib: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and taletrectinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ziprasidone: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and ziprasidone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes, hyperbilirubinemia
    General Information
    Hepatotoxicity, including drug-induced liver injury and fatal adverse reactions, can occur in patients treated with taletrectinib; elevated hepatic enzymes and hyperbilirubinemia have also occurred. In a pooled safety population, increased AST occurred in 88% (grade 3 or 4, 10%) and increased ALT occurred in 85% (grade 3 or 4, 13%) of patients treated with taletrectinib. The median time to first onset of AST or ALT elevation was 15 days. Concurrent elevations in AST or ALT 3 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) or more and total bilirubin 2 times ULN or more, with normal alkaline phosphatase, occurred in 0.6% of patients in the same population; fatal unspecified liver events also occurred in 0.6% of patients. Increases from baseline in bilirubin (24%; grade 3 or 4, 0.6%), gamma glutamyl transferase (36%; grade 3 or 4, 1.8%) and alkaline phosphatase (30%) were also reported in patients with advanced ROS1-positive non-small cell lung cancer treated with taletrectinib in 2 single-arm, open-label trials. Higher taletrectinib exposure is associated with an increased risk of Grade 3 or higher elevations in AST and ALT. If hepatotoxicity occurs, an interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary depending on the severity.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperbilirubinemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    interstitial lung disease, pneumonitis
    General Information
    Severe, life-threatening, or fatal interstitial lung disease (ILD) or pneumonitis can occur with taletrectinib. In the pooled safety population, ILD/pneumonitis occurred in 2.3% (grade 3 or 4, 1.1%) of patients treated with taletrectinib; one fatal case of ILD occurred in the same population. The median time to first onset of ILD/pneumonitis was 3.8 months. Withhold taletrectinib if ILD/pneumonitis is suspected; if confirmed, an interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary depending on the severity.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      interstitial lung disease
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pneumonitis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    QT prolongation
    General Information
    QT prolongation, which can increase the risk of ventricular tachyarrhythmias (e.g. torsades de pointes) or sudden death, has been reported in patients treated with taletrectinib. In a pooled safety population, an increase in QTcF of more than 60 msec compared to baseline occurred in 13% of taletrectinib-treated patients while 2.6% of patients had an increase in QTcF to more than 500 msec. Overall, grade 3 or higher QTcF interval prolongation occurred in 3.4% of patients in the same population. Taletrectinib prolongs the QTc interval in a concentration-dependent manner. The largest mean increase in the QTc interval was 12.8 msec (upper confidence interval of 15.4 msec) at the mean steady-state maximum concentration after administration of taletrectinib; at plasma concentrations achieved with administration of taletrectinib with high fat food, the predicted increase in the QTc interval is 20.5 (16.3, 24.7) msec. Significant QTc interval prolongation may occur when taletrectinib is taken with food, strong and moderate CYP3A inhibitors, and/or drugs with a known potential to prolong QTc; administer taletrectinib on an empty stomach and avoid coadministration with strong and moderate CYP3A inhibitors and/or drugs with known potential to prolong QTc. If QTc prolongation occurs, an interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary depending on the severity.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      QT prolongation
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hyperuricemia
    General Information
    In a pooled safety population, hyperuricemia occurred in 14% of patients treated with taletrectinib; 16% of these patients required urate-lowering medication without pre-existing gout or hyperuricemia. Grade 3 or higher hyperuricemia occurred in 1 patient. The median time to first onset of hyperuricemia was 2.1 months. If hyperuricemia occurs, initiate treatment with urate-lowering medication as clinically indicated; an interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary depending on the severity.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperuricemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    bone fractures
    General Information
    Taletrectinib can increase the risk of fractures. As a class, ROS1 inhibitors have been associated with skeletal fractures. In a pooled safety population, bone fractures occurred in 3.4% (grade 3, 1.4%) of patients treated with taletrectinib. Fractures involved the ribs (1.4%), spine (0.9%), femur (0.6%), humerus (0.3%), and acetabulum (0.3%). Some fractures occurred in the setting of a predisposing factor (osteoporosis, bone metastasis, and age-related degenerative conditions) or an accidental fall. The median time to onset of fracture was 10.7 months. There is no data on the effects of taletrectinib on the healing of current fractures and the risk of future fractures.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      bone fractures
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    elevated creatine kinase, myalgia
    General Information
    Taletrectinib can cause myalgia with or without elevated creatine kinase/creatine phosphokinase (CPK). In a pooled safety population, concurrent myalgia with increased CPK within a 7-day period occurred in 0.9% of patients; myalgia alone was reported in 10% of patients treated with taletrectinib in the same population. The median time to first onset of myalgia was 11 days. Increases from baseline in CPK occurred in 53% (grade 3 or 4, 5%) of patients treated with taletrectinib in 2 open-label, single-arm trials. If CPK elevation occurs, an interruption of therapy or dose reduction may be necessary depending on the severity.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      myalgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      elevated creatine kinase
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anorexia, constipation, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting
    General Information
    Nausea (47%; grade 3 or 4, 1.5%), vomiting (43%; grade 3 or 4, 1.5%), diarrhea, including enterocolitis, (64%; grade 3 or 4, 2.1%), and constipation (21%) were reported in taletrectinib treated patients in 2 open-label, single arm trials. Anorexia was also reported in 16% (grade 3 or 4, 0.3%) of patients in the same population.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    dizziness, dysesthesia, dysgeusia, hypoesthesia, paresthesias, peripheral neuropathy, vertigo
    General Information
    Peripheral neuropathy, including dysesthesia, hypoesthesia, neuralgia, and paresthesias, was reported in 17% (grade 3 or 4, 0.3%) of patients treated with taletrectinib in 2 open-label, single-arm trials. Dizziness, including vertigo (22%; grade 3 or 4, 0.3%), and dysgeusia, including ageusia (15%), were also reported in patients in the same population.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dysesthesia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      dysgeusia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypoesthesia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      paresthesias
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral neuropathy
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vertigo
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    acneiform rash, Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS), maculopapular rash, palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (hand and foot syndrome), photosensitivity, rash
    General Information
    Rash was reported in 22% (grade 3 or 4, 1.8%) of patients treated with taletrectinib in 2 open-label, single-arm trials. The term rash included dermatitis, acneiform rash, drug eruption, eczema, palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (hand and foot syndrome), maculopapular rash, skin exfoliation, and drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS). Photosensitivity reactions and DRESS each occurred in less than 15% of patients in the same population.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      photosensitivity
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (hand and foot syndrome)
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      maculopapular rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS)
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      acneiform rash
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    asthenia, fatigue
    General Information
    Fatigue, including asthenia, was reported in 20% (grade 3 or 4, 0.9%) of patients treated with taletrectinib in 2 open-label, single-arm trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    cough
    General Information
    Cough was reported in 16% of patients with advanced ROS1-positive non-small cell lung cancer treated with taletrectinib in 2 open-label, single-arm trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    infection
    General Information
    Infection, specifically pneumonia, was reported in less than 15% of patients treated with taletrectinib in 2 open-label, single-arm trials. Serious cases of pneumonia were reported in 7% and fatal cases of pneumonia were reported in 2.4% of patients in the same population.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    ocular toxicity
    General Information
    Unspecified ocular toxicity/eye disorders were reported in less than 15% of patients treated with taletrectinib in 2 open-label, single-arm trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      ocular toxicity
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anemia, lymphopenia, neutropenia
    General Information
    Anemia, lymphopenia, and neutropenia have occurred in patients treated with taletrectinib in 2 open-label, single-arm trials, including decreases from baseline in hemoglobin (48%; grade 3 or 4, 3.6%), lymphocytes (38%; grade 3 or 4, 4.8%), and neutrophils (25%; grade 3 or 4, 5%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      lymphopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      neutropenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hypoalbuminemia
    General Information
    Hypoalbuminemia has occurred in patients treated with taletrectinib in 2 open-label, single-arm trials, including decreases from baseline in albumin concentrations in 25% of patients (grade 3 or 4, 0.9%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypoalbuminemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hyperkalemia, hypernatremia, hypocalcemia
    General Information
    Hyperkalemia, hypernatremia, and hypocalcemia have been reported in patients treated with taletrectinib in 2 open-label, single-arm trials including increases from baseline in potassium (21%; grade 3 or 4, 1.2%) and sodium (20%; grade 3 or 4, 0.9%) and decreases from baseline in calcium (28%; grade 3 or 4, 1.8%). Increases from baseline in serum creatinine were also reported in 39% (grade 3 or 4, 0.3%) of patients in the same population.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperkalemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypernatremia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypocalcemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hypercholesterolemia, hypertriglyceridemia
    General Information
    Hypercholesterolemia and hypertriglyceridemia were reported in patients treated with taletrectinib in 2 open-label, single-arm trials, including increases from baseline in cholesterol (41%) and triglycerides (41%; grade 3 or 4, 2.5%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypercholesterolemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      hypertriglyceridemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    infertility
    General Information
    Based on animal studies, taletrectinib may cause infertility in both people who can become pregnant and in those who can cause pregnancy. The effects on animal fertility were reversible.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infertility
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    pleural effusion, respiratory failure
    General Information
    Serious cases of pleural effusion were reported in 4.7% of patients with advanced ROS1-positive non-small cell lung cancer treated with taletrectinib in 2 single-arm, open-label clinical trials. Fatal cases of respiratory failure were also reported in 0.3% of patients in the same population.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      pleural effusion
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      respiratory failure
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    cardiac arrest, heart failure
    General Information
    Fatal cases of cardiac arrest (0.6%), heart failure (0.3%), and cardiopulmonary failure (0.3%) were reported in patients with advanced ROS1-positive non-small cell lung cancer treated with taletrectinib in 2 single-arm, open-label trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cardiac arrest
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      heart failure
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To

Description
  Text
  Taletrectinib is a tyrosine kinase inhibitor which inhibits ROS1, including ROS1 resistance mutations. It is indicated for the treatment of adults with locally advanced or metastatic ROS1-positive non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Hepatotoxicity, interstitial lung disease/pneumonitis, QTc interval prolongation, hyperuricemia, myalgia with creatine phosphokinase elevation, and skeletal fractures have all occurred in patients treated with taletrectinib. Taletrectinib was approved by the FDA in June 2025.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Taletrectinib is an inhibitor of tyrosine kinase ROS1, including ROS1 resistance mutations. Fusion proteins that include ROS1 domains can drive tumorigenic potential through hyperactivation of downstream signaling pathways leading to unconstrained cell proliferation. It also has inhibitory effects on tropomyosin receptor kinases (TRKs) TRKA, TRKB, and TRKC. Taletrectinib inhibits growth of cancer cells expressing ROS1 fusion genes and mutations. In mice subcutaneously implanted with tumors harboring ROS1 fusions, including the G203R mutation, taletrectinib administration resulted in inhibition of tumor growth; it also demonstrated anticancer activity in an intracranial non-small cell lung cancer xenograft model harboring a ROS1 fusion.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    At steady-state, the mean taletrectinib Cmax is 476 nanogram/mL (CV, 36%) and AUC is 9,649 nanogram x hour/mL (CV, 36%). The taletrectinib AUC and Cmax increase in a dose proportional manner over the dose range of 50 mg to 1,200 mg; taletrectinib accumulation is approximately 4-fold and steady-state is reached within 7 days. The taletrectinib Tmax is 2 to 6 hours. Taletrectinib also displays pH-dependent aqueous solubility; its Cmax and AUC decreased by 65% and 40%, respectively, following concomitant administration with omeprazole 40 mg daily.
Effect of food: The AUC and Cmax of taletrectinib increased by 1.5-fold following administration with high-fat food (1,000 calories, 50% fat).
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of taletrectinib were observed based on mild hepatic impairment (total bilirubin more than 1 to 1.5 times the upper limit of normal [ULN] or AST more than ULN). The effect of moderate or severe (total bilirubin more than 1.5 times ULN with any AST) on taletrectinib pharmacokinetics is unknown.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of taletrectinib were observed based on mild to moderate renal impairment (eGFR 30 to 89 mL/min). The effect of dialysis or severe renal impairment (eGFR less than 30 mL/min) on taletrectinib pharmacokinetics is unknown.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Age (18 to 80 years) did not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of taletrectinib.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    Sex did not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of taletrectinib.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    The taletrectinib AUC was increased by 30% in Asian patients compared to White patients; no clinically significant differences in AUC were observed between White and Black patients.
  Text
  Taletrectinib is administered orally. Plasma protein binding is concentration-dependent and decreases with increasing taletrectinib concentrations from 96% at 100 nanogram/mL to 93% at 10,000 nanogram/mL; the blood-to-plasma ratio is 1.3 to 1.4 in vitro. Its steady state estimated apparent volume of distribution is 9,820 L. Taletrectinib is metabolized by CYP3A and, to a lesser extent, CYP2C8 and CYP2C9; it also undergoes non-CYP450 (i.e. sulfation and acetylation) metabolism. Following a single oral dose of radiolabeled taletrectinib 200 mg, 11% of the dose was recovered in the urine (2.9% as unchanged drug) and 75% in the feces (15% as unchanged drug). The steady state effective half-life of taletrectinib is approximately 66 hours with an apparent clearance of 63 L/hour (CV, 36%).
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP1A2, CYP2C8, CYP2D6, CYP3A, BCRP, P-gp, OATP1B1, MATE1, MATE2-K
Taletrectinib is metabolized in the liver. It is a substrate of CYP3A, CYP2C8, and CYP2C9; in vitro, it is also a substrate of P-gp. When taletrectinib was administered with itraconazole (strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor), the AUC and Cmax were increased by 3.3-fold and 1.8-fold, respectively. Concomitant use with moderate CYP3A inhibitors such as fluconazole, erythromycin, or verapamil is predicted to increase the AUC and Cmax up to 2.6-fold and 1.5-fold, respectively. When taletrectinib was administered with rifampin (a strong CYP3A and P-gp inducer), the AUC of taletrectinib was decreased by 86% and the Cmax was reduced by 42%. Concomitant use of taletrectinib with moderate CYP3A inducers such as efavirenz is predicted to reduce taletrectinib AUC by 66% and its Cmax by 40%. In vitro, taletrectinib is also an inhibitor of CYP2C8, CYP2D6, CYP3A, P-gp, BCRP, OATP1B1, MATE1, and MATE2-K; it is also an inducer of CYP1A2 and CYP3A4. When taletrectinib was used concomitantly with digoxin (P-gp substrate), no clinically significant difference in the exposure of digoxin was observed.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
Emetic Risk
Moderate/high
Administer routine antiemetic prophylaxis prior to treatment.
Patient Counseling
Minimize sun exposure and use sun protection, including broad-spectrum sunscreen, during treatment with taletrectinib and for at least 5 days after discontinuation.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Take taletrectinib on an empty stomach (no food intake at least 2 hours before and 2 hours after taking taletrectinib).
Swallow capsules whole; do not open, chew, crush or dissolve the capsule prior to swallowing.
If a dose is missed, take the next dose at the regular time on the following day.
If vomiting occurs at any time after taking a dose, take the next dose at the regular time on the following day.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    600 mg PO once daily.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    600 mg PO once daily.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Baseline Hepatic Impairment
Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
Treatment-Related Hepatotoxicity
Grade 3 (ALT or AST greater than 5 to 20 times the upper limit of normal [ULN]): Hold taletrectinib. If ALT or AST resolve to grade 1 or less or baseline within 6 weeks, reduce the dose of taletrectinib by 1 dose level and resume therapy; if unresolved after 6 weeks, permanently discontinue therapy.
Grade 4 (greater than 20 times ULN): Hold taletrectinib. If ALT or AST resolve to grade 1 or less or baseline within 6 weeks, reduce the dose of taletrectinib by 1 dose level and resume therapy; if unresolved after 6 weeks, permanently discontinue therapy. If grade 4 hepatotoxicity recurs, permanently discontinue therapy.
ALT/AST greater 3 times ULN or more with concurrent bilirubin 2 times ULN or more (in the absence of cholestasis or hemolysis): Permanently discontinue therapy.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
