=== Agalsidase Beta — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 2516)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Agalsidase beta is a recombinant human alpha-galactosidase A enzyme given by intravenous infusion in adult and pediatric patients 2 years and older.

Routes: injection (IV/IM/SC); Common adult doses: No maximum dosage information is available.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): arthralgia, asthenia, back pain, hearing loss, heart failure, myocardial infarction, palpitations, stroke, tinnitus, cough, hypoxia, infection, pharyngitis, respiratory failure, rhinitis, sinusitis, wheezing, hyperhidrosis, hypoesthesia, lymphadenopathy, renal failure (unspecified), vasculitis

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. cardiac disease Individuals with advanced Fabry disease may have cardiac disease, including compromised cardiac function, which may predispose them to a higher risk of severe...

AGALSIDASE BETA

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Fabrazyme

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of Fabry disease

Intravenous dosage
Adults


1 mg/kg/dose IV every 2 weeks. Reduce the initial dose to 0.5 mg/kg/dose IV in patients being rechallenged after a positive skin test or who have tested positive for anti-agalsidase beta IgE. The dose may be increased to 1 mg/kg/dose IV once tolerance has been established.


Children and Adolescents 2 to 17 years


1 mg/kg/dose IV every 2 weeks. Reduce the initial dose to 0.5 mg/kg/dose IV in patients being rechallenged after a positive skin test or who have tested positive for anti-agalsidase beta IgE. The dose may be increased to 1 mg/kg/dose IV once tolerance has been established.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

cardiac disease


Individuals with advanced Fabry disease may have cardiac disease, including compromised cardiac function, which may predispose them to a higher risk of severe complications from infusion-associated reactions. Closely monitor patients with compromised cardiac function if agalsidase beta is administered to these patients. Due to the potential for severe infusion reactions, ensure appropriate medical support measures are readily available when agalsidase beta is administered.


pregnancy


Available data from a pregnancy sub-study within the Fabry Disease registry (n = 33 exposed prior to or during pregnancy; 5 exposures in the first trimester), postmarketing case reports, and case series with agalsidase beta use in human pregnancy have not revealed a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. Reproduction studies performed in rats at doses up to 68 times the human dose have revealed no evidence of effects on embryo-fetal development. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors outcomes in pregnant patients exposed to agalsidase beta; information about the registry can be obtained at www.registrynxt.com or by calling 1-800-745-4447 (ext 15500) or 1-800-633-1610 (option 1).


serious hypersensitivity reactions or anaphylaxis


Agalsidase beta is associated with a risk of serious hypersensitivity reactions or anaphylaxis. Anaphylaxis has occurred during the early course of therapy and after extended duration of therapy. The initiation of therapy requires a specialized care setting with appropriate medical monitoring and support measures including cardiopulmonary resuscitation equipment. Administration should be supervised by a health care provider knowledgeable in the management of hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis. Prior to agalsidase beta infusion, consider pretreating with antihistamines, antipyretics, and/or corticosteroids. Signs and symptoms observed concomitantly with hypersensitivity reactions include localized angioedema (swelling of the face, mouth, or throat), bronchospasm, hypotension, urticaria, dysphagia, rash, dyspnea, flushing, chest discomfort, pruritus, and nasal congestion. If a severe hypersensitivity reaction or anaphylaxis occurs, immediately discontinue the agalsidase infusion and initiate appropriate medical treatment, including use of epinephrine. Observe patients closely during and after the infusion. Inform patients and/or caregivers of the signs and symptoms of anaphylaxis and instruct them to seek immediate medical care should signs and symptoms occur. Consider testing for IgE antibodies in agalsidase beta treated patients who experience a severe hypersensitivity reaction or anaphylaxis and consider the risks and benefits of continued treatment in a patient with anti-agalsidase beta IgE antibodies. There are no marketed tests for antibodies against agalsidase beta. Contact Genzyme Corporation at 800-745-4447 if testing is warranted. Patients who have had a positive skin test or who have tested positive for agalsidase beta specific antibodies have been rechallenged using a rechallenge protocol. Rechallenge of these patients should only occur under direct supervision of health care providers with appropriate medical monitoring and support measures readily available.


breast-feeding


Available human data detected small amounts of agalsidase beta in human milk. Available data from clinical studies, global pharmacovigilance database, and published scientific literature are insufficient to determine the effects on the breastfed child or on milk production. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the patient's clinical need for agalsidase beta, and any potential adverse effects on the breast-fed child from the medication or from the underlying maternal medical condition. There is a registry that monitors outcomes in lactating persons exposed to agalsidase beta; information about the registry can be obtained at www.registrynxt.com or by calling 1-800-745-4447 (ext 15500) or 1-800-633-1610 (option 1).


Pregnancy And Lactation


Available data from a pregnancy sub-study within the Fabry Disease registry (n = 33 exposed prior to or during pregnancy; 5 exposures in the first trimester), postmarketing case reports, and case series with agalsidase beta use in human pregnancy have not revealed a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. Reproduction studies performed in rats at doses up to 68 times the human dose have revealed no evidence of effects on embryo-fetal development. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors outcomes in pregnant patients exposed to agalsidase beta; information about the registry can be obtained at www.registrynxt.com or by calling 1-800-745-4447 (ext 15500) or 1-800-633-1610 (option 1).


Interactions

There are no drug interactions associated with Agalsidase Beta products.

Adverse Reaction
General Information

NOTE: A registry has been established to help monitor and evaluate the long-term treatment effects of agalsidase beta. Information may be obtained by visiting www.registrynxt.com or calling 1-800-745-4447 (extension 15500) in the United States.

abdominal pain, bradycardia, chest pain (unspecified), chills, diarrhea, dizziness, dyspnea, fatigue, fever, flushing, headache, hypertension, hypotension, infusion-related reactions, myalgia, nasal congestion, nausea, paresthesias, peripheral edema, pruritus, rash, sinus tachycardia, urticaria, vomiting


Infusion-related reactions to agalsidase beta occurred in 59% of patients in clinical trials; some infusion reactions were severe. Infusion-related reactions are defined as adverse reactions occurring on the same day as the infusion. Severe infusion-related reactions included chills, vomiting, hypotension, and paresthesias (31%). Other infusion-related reactions included fever (39%), rash (20%), flushing (5%), chills (49%), dyspnea (8%), headache (39%), fatigue (24%), pain in extremity (19%), hypertension (14%), chest pain (unspecified) or discomfort (5%), dizziness (21%), sinus tachycardia (9%), peripheral edema (21%), myalgia (18%), somnolence, pruritus (10%), throat tightness, nausea, abdominal pain, bradycardia, nasal congestion, diarrhea, urticaria, and feeling hot or cold. In a clinical trial of pediatric patients (8 to 16 years), vomiting, fever, headache, dizziness, nausea, abdominal pain, and diarrhea were reported at a rate of more than 20%. The incidence of infusion-related reactions was higher in patients who were positive for anti-agalsidase beta antibodies compared to patients who were negative for anti-agalsidase beta antibodies. Closely observe patients during and after drug administration and be prepared to manage hypersensitivity or infusion-related reactions; appropriate medical support, including cardiopulmonary resuscitation equipment, should be readily available. Symptoms of infusion-related reactions may be lessened by decreasing the infusion rate, temporarily stopping the infusion, and/or administering antihistamines, antipyretics, and/or corticosteroids. Patients pretreated with antihistamines, antipyretics, and/or corticosteroids may still experience reactions. If severe infusion-related or hypersensitivity reactions occur, immediately discontinue the agalsidase beta infusion and initiate appropriate medical treatment.


arthralgia, asthenia, back pain


In clinical trials of patients 16 to 61 years, back pain (16%) was reported more frequently in patients receiving agalsidase beta than placebo. Arthralgia was reported in more than 20% of pediatric patients (8 to 16 years) who received agalsidase beta during a clinical trial. Asthenia has also been reported with postmarketing use of agalsidase beta; however, a causal relationship to the drug has not been established.


hearing loss, heart failure, myocardial infarction, palpitations, stroke, tinnitus


More patients receiving agalsidase beta vs. placebo experienced pain (16%), tinnitus (8%), burning sensation (6%), and hypoacousia or hearing loss (5%). Cardiorespiratory arrest, heart failure, cerebrovascular accident (stroke), myocardial infarction, and palpitations have also been reported with postmarketing use of agalsidase beta; however, a causal relationship to the drug has not been established.


antibody formation


Antibody formation occurred in approximately 83% (110/133) of adult patients receiving agalsidase beta; 77% (102/133) of patients developed neutralizing antibody (NAb) that inhibited in vitro agalsidase beta catalytic activity, which declined over time, and 6% (8/133) of patients developed NAb that inhibited cellular uptake. In pediatric patients (8 to 15 years), antibodies to agalsidase beta were detected in approximately 69% (11/16) of patients. Most patients developed antibodies within the first 3 months of treatment; antibody titers generally declined over time. Approximately 18% of adult patients who developed antibodies became antibody-negative by 74 weeks from the time of seroconversion; however, none of the pediatric patients became antibody-negative. Female patients generally had lower incidence of antibodies and lower antibody titers compared to male patients. Patients with truncating GLA mutations, had higher incidence of antibodies and higher antibody titers compared to patients with nontruncating GLA mutations. Patients with plasma alpha-galactosidase A activity of 1.5 nmol/hour/mL or less had a higher incidence of antibodies and higher antibody titers compared to patients with plasma alpha-galactosidase A activity of more than 1.5 nmol/hour/mL. Over 90% of adult and pediatric patients treated with agalsidase beta achieved and maintained normalization of plasma globotriaosylceramide (GL-3) concentrations irrespective of developing antibodies to agalsidase beta.


anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, bronchospasm, dysphagia, serious hypersensitivity reactions or anaphylaxis


Serious hypersensitivity reactions or anaphylaxis have been reported in patients treated with enzyme replacement therapy. Anaphylaxis has occurred during the early course of enzyme replacement therapy and after extended duration of therapy. Anaphylactoid reactions or severe allergic reactions have been reported in approximately 1% of patients receiving agalsidase beta. Reactions have included localized angioedema (swelling of the face, mouth, and throat), bronchospasm, hypotension, generalized urticaria, dysphagia, rash, dyspnea, flushing, chest discomfort, pruritus, and nasal congestion. In clinical trials, 10 of 238 patients developed IgE antibodies or skin test reactivity to agalsidase beta; 2 of 6 patients in the rechallenge study discontinued treatment with agalsidase beta early due to recurrent infusion-associated reactions. Three patients experienced a total of 4 serious infusion-associated reactions during infusion, including bronchospasm, urticaria, hypotension, and development of agalsidase beta antibodies. Other infusion-associated reactions occurring in more than 1 patient included rigors, hypertension, nausea, vomiting, and pruritus. Hypersensitivity reactions were observed more often in adult patients with persistent anti-agalsidase beta antibodies and in adult patients with high antibody titer compared to antibody-negative adult patients. Appropriate medical support including cardiopulmonary resuscitation equipment should be readily available upon agalsidase beta administration. If a severe anaphylactic or allergic reaction occurs, discontinue administration of agalsidase beta immediately and initiate emergency treatment, including the use of epinephrine. Consider the risks and benefits of further treatment in patients with suspected allergic reactions to agalsidase beta. Rechallenge of these patients should only occur under the supervision of a qualified health care provider with appropriate medical monitoring and support measures readily available. Consider testing for IgE antibodies if a patient develops a severe hypersensitivity reaction, including anaphylaxis; patients who develop IgE antibodies to agalsidase beta appear to be at higher risk for hypersensitivity and therefore should be monitored closely during administration. There are currently no marketed tests for antibodies against agalsidase beta; however, a testing service is provided by Genzyme. Call 1-800-745-4447 for information on testing and to obtain a sample collection box.


cough, hypoxia, infection, pharyngitis, respiratory failure, rhinitis, sinusitis, wheezing


During clinical trials, the following respiratory effects, infections, and related symptoms were reported more frequently in patients receiving agalsidase beta than with placebo: upper respiratory tract infection, including nasal congestion, sinusitis, pharyngitis, and respiratory tract congestion (53%), cough (33%), lower respiratory tract infection (18%), wheezing (6%), fungal infection (5%), and viral infection (5%). During a clinical trial, rhinitis and pharyngitis were each reported in greater than 20% of pediatric patients (8 to 16 years) who received agalsidase beta. Hypoxia and respiratory failure have also been reported with postmarketing use of agalsidase beta; however, a causal relationship to the drug has not been established.


hyperhidrosis, hypoesthesia, lymphadenopathy, renal failure (unspecified), vasculitis


During clinical trials, the following general effects were reported more frequently in patients receiving agalsidase beta than placebo: excoriation (9%), increased serum creatine (9%), and fall (6%). Hyperhidrosis, hypoesthesia, lymphadenopathy, leukocytoclastic vasculitis, and renal failure (unspecified) have also been reported with postmarketing use of agalsidase beta; however, a causal relationship to the drug has not been established.


anxiety, depression


Anxiety and depression were each reported in 6% of patients receiving agalsidase beta in clinical trials compared to 3% and 2% of patients receiving placebo, respectively.


Description

Agalsidase beta is a recombinant human alpha-galactosidase A enzyme given by intravenous infusion in adult and pediatric patients 2 years and older. Patients with Fabry disease have a deficiency of the lysosomal enzyme, ceramidetrihexosidase or alpha-galactosidase A, which breaks down glycosphingolipids (predominantly globotriaosylceramide or GL-3). Glycosphingolipids accumulate in the lining of blood vessels in the heart, kidney, and other organs in patients without an adequate presence of alpha-galactosidase A. Crises of severe pain in the extremities (acroparesthesias), hypohidrosis, corneal opacities, and dysfunction of several organs (kidney, brain, heart) are the primary manifestations, and patients often have decreased life expectancy and experience renal failure, cardiomyopathy, and cerebrovascular accidents. Replacement of the deficient enzyme may reduce concentrations of the accumulated glycolipids in various tissues and attenuate disease symptoms. During administration, monitor patients closely for hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis and infusion-related reactions. Premedication with antihistamines, antipyretics, and/or corticosteroids is recommended and resuscitative equipment should be readily available during administration. The most common adverse drug reactions are upper respiratory tract infection, chills, fever, headache, cough, paresthesia, fatigue, peripheral edema, dizziness, and rash.

Mechanism Of Action

Agalsidase beta, by providing an exogenous source of alpha-galactosidase A, catalyzes the hydrolysis of globotriaosylceramide (GL-3) and other alpha-galactyl-terminated neural glycosphingolipids, such as galabiosylceramide and blood group B substances to ceramide dihexoside and galactose. Without alpha-galactosidase A, globotriaosylceramide accumulates in the lysosomes. Prolonged elevated concentrations of glycosphingolipids, especially globotriaosylceramide, in many body tissues promote the clinical manifestations of Fabry disease, such as renal failure, cardiomyopathy and cerebrovascular accidents. Agalsidase beta reduces GL-3 deposition in capillary endothelium of the kidney and certain other cell types.

Pharmacokinetics


Agalsidase beta is given by intravenous infusion. It displays non-linear kinetics over the dose range of 0.3, 1, and 3 mg/kg in adult patients. The plasma concentration-time curve and clearance increased greater than dose proportional with increasing doses. After multiple doses in adult patients, the AUC and Cmax were comparable to their values at the first dose. The mean AUC and Cmax in adult patients receiving 1 mg/kg IV every 14 days ranged from 372 to 784 mcg x minute/mL and 2.1 to 3.5 mcg/mL, respectively. The mean half-life ranged from 82 to 119 minutes. As a protein, agalsidase beta is expected to be metabolically degraded through peptide hydrolysis.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: none


Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Pediatrics

The pharmacokinetics of agalsidase beta were evaluated in 15 pediatric patients 8 to 16 years of age after receiving doses of 1 mg/kg IV every 14 days. After multiple doses, the AUC and Cmax were higher compared to their values at the first dose. The increased plasma concentrations after multiple doses in pediatric patients could be due to formation of antidrug antibodies; however, this was not observed in adult patients. The mean AUC and Cmax after 1, 12, and 24 infusions in pediatric patients were 344, 1,007, and 1,238 mcg x minute/mL and 2.2, 4.9, and 7.1 mcg/mL, respectively. The mean half-lives were 86, 130, and 151 minutes, respectively.

Administration

For storage information, see specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Injectable Administration


Administration should be supervised by a health care provider knowledgeable in the management of hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis. Initiate therapy in a health care setting with appropriate medical monitoring and support measures, including access to cardiopulmonary resuscitation equipment.
Consider testing for IgE in patients who experience severe hypersensitivity reactions and consider the risks and benefits of continued treatment in patients with anti-agalsidase beta IgE. There are no marketed tests for antibodies against agalsidase beta. For testing, contact Genzyme Corporation at 1-800-745-4477.
Visually inspect parenteral products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.


Intravenous Administration

Reconstitution
The drug vial and diluent need to reach room temperature before reconstitution. The number of needed drug vials is based on the patient's weight in kg times the recommended dose of 1 mg/kg.
Slowly inject 1.1 mL (5-mg vial) or 7.2 mL (35-mg vial) of Sterile Water for Injection down the side of each drug vial. Roll and tilt the vial to produce a clear solution. Do not shake or agitate the product. If the solution is not colorless or has particulate matter, discard the vial.
After vial reconstitution, the 5-mg vial will contain 1 mL of solution and the 35-mg vial will contain 7 mL of solution for a concentration of 5 mg/mL. Agalsidase beta does not contain any preservatives. Vials are for single-use only and any unused product should be discarded.
 
Dilution
The reconstituted vial solution should be further diluted with 0.9% NaCl Injection to a total volume based on patient weight:
weight 35 kg or less: minimum total volume of 50 mL
weight 35.1 to 70 kg: minimum total volume of 100 mL
weight 70.1 to 100 kg: minimum total volume of 250 mL
weight more than 100 kg: minimum total volume of 500 mL
Withdraw the needed amount of drug solution from the vial. Prior to adding the volume of reconstituted drug, withdraw an equal volume of 0.9% NaCl Injection from the bag. Inject the drug solution directly into the 0.9% NaCl Injection bag. Do not inject the drug solution into the airspace within the infusion bag. Gently invert the bag to mix the solution. Do not vigorously shake or agitate the bag.
Storage: Prepared infusion solutions should be used immediately. If immediate use is not possible, the infusion solution can be stored for up to 24 hours at 2 to 8 degrees C (36 to 46 degrees F).
 
Intermitent IV Infusion
Administer only as an IV infusion.
Consider pretreatment with antihistamines, antipyretics, and/or corticosteroids prior to the start of infusion. Appropriate medical support measures (including cardiopulmonary resuscitation equipment) needs to be readily available during the infusion, as a severe infusion reaction may occur.
Administer using an in-line low protein binding 0.2 micron filter. Do not infuse through the same intravenous line used for other products.
Infuse no faster than 0.25 mg/minute (15 mg/hour) initially.
weight less than 30 kg: The maximum infusion rate is 0.25 mg/minute (15 mg/hour).
weight 30 kg or more: In the absence of hypersensitivity and/or infusion-associated reactions, increase the infusion rate in increments of 0.05 to 0.08 mg/minute (3 to 5 mg/hour) with each subsequent infusion. The minimum infusion duration is 1.5 hours (based on patient tolerance). In the event of infusion-associated reactions, infusion rates may be slowed or temporarily stopped.
The initial infusion rate should not exceed 0.01 mg/minute in patients being rechallenged with agalsidase beta after having a positive skin test or testing positive for anti-agalsidase beta IgE. The infusion rate can be doubled every 30 minutes to a maximum of 0.25 mg/minute after patient tolerance has been established.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

No maximum dosage information is available.

Geriatric

No maximum dosage information is available.

Adolescents

No maximum dosage information is available.

Children

2 to 12 years: No maximum dosage information is available.
1 year: Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

Fabrazyme 35mg Powder for Injection

Fabrazyme 5mg Powder for Injection

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

Renal Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

© 2026 Elsevier