=== rOPINIRole (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 793)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Ropinirole is an oral non-ergoline dopamine agonist.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 24 mg/day PO when used for Parkinson disease; 4 mg/day PO for restless legs syndrome.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): angioedema, flushing, hyperhidrosis, pruritus, rash (unspecified), urticaria, asthenia, chest pain (unspecified), edema, peripheral edema, atrial fibrillation, bradycardia, hypertension, hypotension, orthostatic hypotension, palpitations, sinus tachycardia, syncope, dizziness, dyskinesia, headache, hyperesthesia, hyperkinesis, insomnia, paresis, paresthesias, tremor, vertigo, yawning, drowsiness

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Ropinirole is classified as FDA pregnancy risk category C. There are no adequate and well-controlled studies of ropinirole in human pregnancy.

Brand Names
  - Requip
  - Requip XL

Dosage Forms
  - Ropinirole Hydrochloride 0.25mg Oral tablet
  - Ropinirole Hydrochloride 0.5mg Oral tablet
  - Ropinirole Hydrochloride 12mg Oral tablet, extended release
  - Ropinirole Hydrochloride 1mg Oral tablet
  - Ropinirole Hydrochloride 2mg Oral tablet
  - Ropinirole Hydrochloride 2mg Oral tablet, extended release
  - Ropinirole Hydrochloride 3mg Oral tablet
  - Ropinirole Hydrochloride 4mg Oral tablet
  - Ropinirole Hydrochloride 4mg Oral tablet, extended release
  - Ropinirole Hydrochloride 5mg Oral tablet
  - Ropinirole Hydrochloride 6mg Oral tablet, extended release
  - Ropinirole Hydrochloride 8mg Oral tablet, extended release

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage (immediate-release)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        0.25 mg PO 3 times daily, initially. May increase the dose by 0.25 mg/dose weekly based on clinical response and tolerability. After week 4, may increase the dose by 1.5 mg/day weekly up to 9 mg day, and then by 3 mg/day weekly. Max: 24 mg/day. To discontinue, reduce dose from 3 times daily to twice daily for 4 days, then once daily for 3 days, and then discontinue.
      Heading
      Oral dosage (extended-release)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        2 mg PO once daily for 1 to 2 weeks, initially. May increase the dose by 2 mg/day weekly based on clinical response and tolerability. Usual dose 12 mg/day or less. Max: 24 mg/day. To discontinue, taper dose gradually over 1 week.
      Heading
      Oral dosage (extended-release conversion from immediate-release ropinirole)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        2 mg PO once daily for 0.75 to 2.25 mg/day immediate-release; 4 mg PO once daily for 3 to 4.5 mg/day immediate-release; 6 mg PO once daily for 6 mg/day immediate-release; 8 mg PO once daily for 7.5 to 9 mg/day immediate-release; 12 mg PO once daily for 12 mg/day immediate-release; 16 mg PO once daily for 15 mg/day immediate-release; 18 mg PO once daily for 18 mg/day immediate-release; 20 mg PO once daily for 21 mg/day immediate-release; 24 mg PO once daily for 24 mg/day immediate-release. May increase the dose by 2 mg/day weekly based on clinical response and tolerability. Usual dose: 12 mg/day or less. Max: 24 mg/day. To discontinue, taper dose gradually over 1 week.
    Heading
    For the treatment of Parkinson disease
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage (immediate-release tablets; i.e., Requip)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        0.25 mg PO once daily given 1 to 3 hours before bedtime, initially. During days 3 through 7, may increase to 0.5 mg/day. At week 2 (day 8), may increase to 1 mg/day for 7 days. In weeks 3 through 6, may titrate further by 0.5 mg/week (from 1.5 mg to 3 mg/day over the 5-week period), as needed to achieve the desired effect. In week 7, may increase to 4 mg/day, based on clinical response and tolerability. All daily doses are given 1 to 3 hours before bedtime. Max: 4 mg/day PO. DISCONTINUATION: When discontinuing a gradual reduction of the daily dose is recommended.
    Heading
    For the treatment of restless legs syndrome (RLS)

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Ropinirole is classified as FDA pregnancy risk category C. There are no adequate and well-controlled studies of ropinirole in human pregnancy. In animal studies, ropinirole was shown to have adverse effects on embryo-fetal development, including teratogenic effects. Therefore, ropinirole should be used in pregnancy only if the potential benefit outweighs the potential risk to the fetus.
 
Ropinirole inhibits prolactin secretion in humans and could potentially inhibit lactation. Studies in rats have shown that ropinirole and/or its metabolites are excreted in breast milk. It is unknown if ropinirole is excreted in human milk. Because many drugs are excreted in human milk, caution should be exercised when ropinirole is administered to breast-feeding women.
 
The safety and effectiveness of ropinirole in children have not been established.
 
The potential for cardiovascular-related adverse effects, including hypertension, hypotension, syncope and changes in heart rate, should be considered during ropinirole therapy. Dopamine agonists, including ropinirole, may impair the systemic regulation of blood pressure resulting in orthostatic hypotension, especially during dose escalation. In addition, Parkinson's disease patients appear to have an impaired capacity to respond to a postural challenge. Some cases of orthostatic hypotension have occurred more than 4 weeks after initiation of therapy. Orthostasis has also been observed in patients using ropinirole for restless legs syndrome (RLS). Careful titration may minimize the potential for this adverse effect. Ropinirole has been associated with syncope, sometimes with bradycardia, in both early Parkinson's disease (without L-dopa) patients and advanced Parkinson's disease (with L-dopa) patients. During clinical trials with extended-release ropinirole, severe systolic blood pressure increases (>= 40 mm Hg) and moderate pulse increases or decreases (>= 15 beats/minute) occurred in some patients. It should be noted that patients with significant cardiovascular disease were excluded from study participation. Therefore, caution is advised in those with severe cardiac disease until the safety of ropinirole in this patient population can be established.
 
Ropinirole should be used cautiously in patients with preexisting psychosis. Hallucinations have been reported in patients receiving ropinirole alone or in combination with L-dopa. Hallucinations have been reported with ropinirole use in patients with Parkinson's disease but not in patients using ropinirole for Restless Leg Syndrome. The incidence of hallucinations is increased in elderly patients as well as during concurrent use of ropinirole with other dopaminergic agents, such as entacapone or L-dopa.
 
Ropinirole should be used with caution in patients with pre-existing dyskinesia. Ropinirole may potentiate the dopaminergic adverse effects of L-dopa and may cause and/or exacerbate pre-existing dyskinesia. Decreasing the dose of L-dopa may ameliorate this adverse effect.
 
No dosage adjustments are needed in patients with mild to moderate renal impairment (CrCl of 30—50 ml/min), however, ropinirole has not been studied in patients with severe renal disease. Administer ropinirole cautiously in patients with severe renal disease or renal impairment.
 
The pharmacokinetics of ropinirole have not been studied in patients with hepatic disease. These patients may have higher plasma concentrations and lower clearance of ropinirole than patients with normal hepatic function. Ropinirole should be titrated with caution in patients with hepatic disease.
 
The effect of tobacco smoking on the oral clearance of ropinirole has not been evaluated. Tobacco smoking is expected to increase the clearance of ropinirole since CYP1A2 is known to be induced by smoking and is the main enzyme responsible for ropinirole metabolism.
 
Ropinirole has the potential to cause somnolence or drowsiness, and this is a common side effect of therapy. There have been at least 60 post-market reports of patients who have fallen asleep. Some incidents occurred while the patient was driving, sometimes suddenly and without warning (see Adverse Reactions). In some cases excessive drowsiness due to ropinirole has resulted in auto accidents or other harmful events in the course of daily living. Two auto fatalities have occurred. Excessive drowsiness has occurred as late as one year after the initiation of treatment, and the relation to the medication is not entirely clear. During clinical trials with extended-release ropinirole (n=613), there were 5 cases of sudden sleep onset and 2 auto accidents. In accordance with package labeling, patients should be cautioned against driving or operating machinery, or performing other tasks that require alertness, until they gauge how ropinirole affects their motor performance. Reassessment for drowsiness or oversedation is necessary throughout ropinirole therapy. The use of concomitant CNS depressant medications, sleep disorders, or interacting medications may increase the risk of falling asleep while on this medication. Prescribers should also be aware that patients may not acknowledge drowsiness or sleepiness until directly questioned about drowsiness or sleepiness during specific activities. If a patient develops significant daytime sleepiness or episodes of falling asleep during activities that require active participation (e.g., conversations, eating, etc.), ropinirole should ordinarily be discontinued. If a decision is made to continue the drug, patients should be advised to not drive and to avoid other potentially dangerous activities. There is insufficient information to establish that dose reduction will eliminate episodes of falling asleep while engaged in activities of daily living.
 
Avoid abrupt discontinuation of immediate-release and extended-release ropinirole. Discontinuation of ropinirole therapy should be undertaken gradually over a 7-day period. The frequency of administration of the immediate-release formulation should be reduced from three times per day to twice daily for 4 days. For the remaining 3 days, the frequency should be reduced to once daily prior to complete withdrawal of the drug.
 
Treatment of restless legs syndrome (RLS) with dopaminergic medications can result in a worsening of symptoms in the early morning hours, referred to as rebound. Augmentation, which may also occur during treatment with dopaminergic agents, refers to the earlier onset of symptoms in the afternoon or evening, increase in symptoms, and spread of symptoms to involve other extremities. The controlled trials of ropinirole in patients with RLS excluded patients with augmentation and rebound and were generally not of sufficient duration to capture these phenomena. The frequency of augmentation and/or rebound after longer use of ropinirole and the appropriate management of these events have not been evaluated in controlled clinical trials.
 
Epidemiological studies have shown that patients with Parkinson's disease have a 2- to 6-fold higher risk of developing melanoma than the general population. It is unclear if this increased risk is disease-related or associated with other factors such as the medications used to treat Parkinson's disease. Therefore, it is recommended that a qualified practitioner (e.g., dermatologist) monitor for melanomas on a regular basis during ropinirole use for any indication. In addition, patients should be instructed to regularly monitor for skin changes that may indicate the presence of melanoma and to promptly report these changes to their provider.
 
Some patients receiving medications that increase dopaminergic tone have reported intense and uncontrollable urges to gamble, increased sexual urges, or other intense urges. Causality due to dopaminergic agents has not been established; however, in some cases the urges stopped after the dose was reduced or the drug was discontinued. Practitioners should inquire periodically about new or worsening impulse control symptoms in patients receiving ropinirole. Likewise, patients should be instructed to report such changes while receiving ropinirole. Dose reduction or discontinuation should be considered in those who experience these effects.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    cardiovascular disease, orthostatic hypotension
    General Information
    Caution is advised when administering ropinirole to people with significant cardiovascular disease or conditions that would be sensitive to changes in blood pressure. Dopaminergic agents may impair systemic regulation of blood pressure and can result in postural or orthostatic hypotension, particularly during dose escalation. Syncope has been reported in patients using dopamine agonists, and patients with severe cardiovascular disease should be asked about symptoms of syncope and pre-syncope. Ropinirole should also be used with caution in people with symptomatic orthostatic hypotension at baseline. Individuals with Parkinson disease appear to have an impaired capacity to respond to a postural challenge. Patients should be carefully monitored for signs and symptoms of postural hypotension, particularly during dose escalation. Careful titration and dose escalation may minimize the potential for orthostatic hypotension and syncope.
    Headline
    activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery, sleep disorder
    General Information
    Ropinirole has the potential to cause drowsiness or somnolence. Prior to initiating treatment, advise patients of the potential for drowsiness while taking ropinirole and inquire about factors that may increase the risk for somnolence, such as a sleep disorder (e.g., narcolepsy, sleep apnea), alcohol use, or coadministration with other CNS depressants. Patients with Parkinson disease or restless leg syndrome taking dopaminergic agents, including ropinirole, have reported sudden sleep onset while engaged in activities of daily living, such as driving. Some patients do not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, and believe they are alert immediately prior to the event; therefore, patients should use caution when driving or operating machinery or performing other activities requiring coordination and concentration. Reassessment for somnolence is necessary throughout therapy. Patients may not acknowledge drowsiness or sleepiness until directly questioned about drowsiness or sleepiness during specific activities. Consider discontinuing ropinirole in patients that develop significant daytime sleepiness or episodes of falling asleep during activities that require active participation (e.g., conversations, eating, etc.). If a decision is made to continue the drug under these circumstances, patients should be advised to avoid driving or other potentially dangerous activities.
    Headline
    psychotic disorder
    General Information
    In general, people with a major psychotic disorder should not be treated with ropinirole because of the risk of exacerbating psychosis. In addition, certain medications used to treat psychosis may exacerbate the symptoms of Parkinson disease and may decrease the effectiveness of ropinirole. Postmarketing reports indicate that patients may experience new or worsening mental status and behavioral changes, which may be severe, including psychotic-like behavior during ropinirole treatment or after starting or increasing the dose of ropinirole. Hallucinations have also been reported in patients receiving ropinirole and were of sufficient severity to cause discontinuation of treatment in some instances.
    Headline
    dyskinesia
    General Information
    Ropinirole may cause or exacerbate pre-existing dyskinesia in patients treated with levodopa for Parkinson disease (PD). In double-blind, placebo-controlled trials in advanced PD, dyskinesia was much more common in patients treated with ropinirole than in those treated with placebo. Decreasing the dose of dopaminergic medications may ameliorate this adverse reaction.
    Headline
    renal failure
    General Information
    Initial dose adjustments are recommended in patients with end-stage renal failure (CrCl less than 15 mL/minute) who are receiving regular dialysis; titration should be based on tolerability and response. The use of ropinirole in patients with severe renal impairment (CrCl less than 30 mL/minute) or renal failure who are not receiving regular dialysis has not been studied. No dosage adjustments are needed in patients with mild to moderate renal impairment (CrCl of 30 to 50 mL/minute or more).
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no adequate or well-controlled studies of ropinirole in human pregnancy; therefore, ropinirole should be used in pregnancy only if the potential benefit to the mother outweighs the potential risk to the fetus. The low molecular weight and pharmacokinetic profile of the drug suggest that placental transfer is likely. In animal studies, ropinirole was teratogenic (e.g., digital malformations) and also produced other adverse effects on embryo-fetal development (e.g., decreased fetal weight, increased fetal deaths). Combined use of ropinirole and L-dopa in pregnant rabbits produced a greater incidence and severity of fetal malformations (primarily digit defects) than were seen in the offspring of rabbits treated with L-dopa alone. In a perinatal-postnatal study in rats, growth and development of nursing offspring were impaired and female offspring experienced altered neurological development. The effects of ropinirole during labor and delivery are unknown.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    The use of ropinirole during breast-feeding is generally not recommended; consider alternate treatments. There are no data on the presence of ropinirole in human milk, the effects of ropinirole on the breastfed infant, or the effects of ropinirole on milk production. However, inhibition of lactation is expected because ropinirole inhibits secretion of prolactin in humans. Ropinirole has been detected in the milk of lactating rats. The benefits of breast-feeding should be considered along with the clinical need for ropinirole therapy and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from ropinirole or from the underlying maternal condition.
    Headline
    geriatric
    General Information
    Based on study date, the relative risk of hallucinations and other ropinirole side effects such as nausea and vomiting is increased in geriatric adults with Parkinson disease compared to younger adults. Dose adjustment is not necessary in geriatric patients (65 years and older), as the dose of ropinirole tablets is individually titrated to clinical therapeutic response and tolerability.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no adequate or well-controlled studies of ropinirole in human pregnancy; therefore, ropinirole should be used in pregnancy only if the potential benefit to the mother outweighs the potential risk to the fetus. The low molecular weight and pharmacokinetic profile of the drug suggest that placental transfer is likely. In animal studies, ropinirole was teratogenic (e.g., digital malformations) and also produced other adverse effects on embryo-fetal development (e.g., decreased fetal weight, increased fetal deaths). Combined use of ropinirole and L-dopa in pregnant rabbits produced a greater incidence and severity of fetal malformations (primarily digit defects) than were seen in the offspring of rabbits treated with L-dopa alone. In a perinatal-postnatal study in rats, growth and development of nursing offspring were impaired and female offspring experienced altered neurological development. The effects of ropinirole during labor and delivery are unknown.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    The use of ropinirole during breast-feeding is generally not recommended; consider alternate treatments. There are no data on the presence of ropinirole in human milk, the effects of ropinirole on the breastfed infant, or the effects of ropinirole on milk production. However, inhibition of lactation is expected because ropinirole inhibits secretion of prolactin in humans. Ropinirole has been detected in the milk of lactating rats. The benefits of breast-feeding should be considered along with the clinical need for ropinirole therapy and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from ropinirole or from the underlying maternal condition.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with ropinirole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with ropinirole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with ropinirole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with ropinirole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
Acetaminophen; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with ropinirole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with ropinirole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with ropinirole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with ropinirole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Acetaminophen; Pamabrom; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
ALFentanil: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with ropinirole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with ropinirole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
ALPRAZolam: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants, such as alprazolam, can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Ropinirole may cause additive drowsiness when combined with tricyclic antidepressants.
Amobarbital: (Moderate) Coadministration of ropinirole and barbiturates may result in decreased concentrations of ropinirole. If therapy with barbiturates is initiated or discontinued during treatment with ropinirole, adjustment of ropinirole dose may be required. Ropinirole is primarily metabolized by CYP1A2; barbiturates are inducers of CYP1A2. Also, somnolence is a commonly reported adverse effect of ropinirole; coadministration of ropinirole with barbiturates may result in additive sedative effects.
Amoxapine: (Moderate) Ropinirole may cause additive drowsiness when combined with amoxapine.
Anagrelide: (Moderate) Anagrelide has been shown to inhibit CYP1A2. In theory, coadministration of anagrelide with substrates of CYP1A2, including ropinirole, could lead to increases in the serum concentrations of ropinirole and, thus, adverse effects. Patients receiving anagrelide and ropinirole concomitantly should be monitored for increased toxicity of ropinirole.
Apomorphine: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and CNS depressants, such as ropinirole, could result in additive depressant effects. Careful monitoring is recommended during combined use of a CNS depressant and apomorphine. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or ropinirole during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and ropinirole may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with ropinirole than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Asenapine: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or ropinirole during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and ropinirole may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with ropinirole than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Coadministration of ropinirole and barbiturates may result in decreased concentrations of ropinirole. If therapy with barbiturates is initiated or discontinued during treatment with ropinirole, adjustment of ropinirole dose may be required. Ropinirole is primarily metabolized by CYP1A2; barbiturates are inducers of CYP1A2. Also, somnolence is a commonly reported adverse effect of ropinirole; coadministration of ropinirole with barbiturates may result in additive sedative effects.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with ropinirole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with ropinirole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with ropinirole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with ropinirole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
atypical antipsychotic: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or ropinirole during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and ropinirole may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with ropinirole than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Azelastine: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when azelastine is combined with other CNS depressants including ropinirole.
Azelastine; Fluticasone: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when azelastine is combined with other CNS depressants including ropinirole.
Barbiturates: (Moderate) Coadministration of ropinirole and barbiturates may result in decreased concentrations of ropinirole. If therapy with barbiturates is initiated or discontinued during treatment with ropinirole, adjustment of ropinirole dose may be required. Ropinirole is primarily metabolized by CYP1A2; barbiturates are inducers of CYP1A2. Also, somnolence is a commonly reported adverse effect of ropinirole; coadministration of ropinirole with barbiturates may result in additive sedative effects.
Belladonna; Opium: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with ropinirole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with ropinirole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with ropinirole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with ropinirole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Brexpiprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or ropinirole during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and ropinirole may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with ropinirole than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Brompheniramine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
Buprenorphine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of buprenorphine with other CNS depressants, such as ropinirole, can lead to additive CNS depressive effects. Hypotension, profound sedation, coma, respiratory depression, or death may occur. Prior to concurrent use, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted. It is recommended that the injectable buprenorphine dose be halved for patients who receive other drugs with CNS depressant effects; for the buprenorphine transdermal patch, start with the 5 mcg/hour patch. Monitor patients for sedation or respiratory depression.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of buprenorphine with other CNS depressants, such as ropinirole, can lead to additive CNS depressive effects. Hypotension, profound sedation, coma, respiratory depression, or death may occur. Prior to concurrent use, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted. It is recommended that the injectable buprenorphine dose be halved for patients who receive other drugs with CNS depressant effects; for the buprenorphine transdermal patch, start with the 5 mcg/hour patch. Monitor patients for sedation or respiratory depression.
busPIRone: (Moderate) The combination of buspirone and other CNS depressants, such as ropinirole, can increase the risk for sedation.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Coadministration of ropinirole and barbiturates may result in decreased concentrations of ropinirole. If therapy with barbiturates is initiated or discontinued during treatment with ropinirole, adjustment of ropinirole dose may be required. Ropinirole is primarily metabolized by CYP1A2; barbiturates are inducers of CYP1A2. Also, somnolence is a commonly reported adverse effect of ropinirole; coadministration of ropinirole with barbiturates may result in additive sedative effects.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Coadministration of ropinirole and barbiturates may result in decreased concentrations of ropinirole. If therapy with barbiturates is initiated or discontinued during treatment with ropinirole, adjustment of ropinirole dose may be required. Ropinirole is primarily metabolized by CYP1A2; barbiturates are inducers of CYP1A2. Also, somnolence is a commonly reported adverse effect of ropinirole; coadministration of ropinirole with barbiturates may result in additive sedative effects.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with ropinirole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with ropinirole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Moderate) Coadministration of ropinirole and barbiturates may result in decreased concentrations of ropinirole. If therapy with barbiturates is initiated or discontinued during treatment with ropinirole, adjustment of ropinirole dose may be required. Ropinirole is primarily metabolized by CYP1A2; barbiturates are inducers of CYP1A2. Also, somnolence is a commonly reported adverse effect of ropinirole; coadministration of ropinirole with barbiturates may result in additive sedative effects.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with ropinirole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with ropinirole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Moderate) Coadministration of ropinirole and barbiturates may result in decreased concentrations of ropinirole. If therapy with barbiturates is initiated or discontinued during treatment with ropinirole, adjustment of ropinirole dose may be required. Ropinirole is primarily metabolized by CYP1A2; barbiturates are inducers of CYP1A2. Also, somnolence is a commonly reported adverse effect of ropinirole; coadministration of ropinirole with barbiturates may result in additive sedative effects.
Butorphanol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of butorphanol with ropinirole can potentiate the effects of butorphanol on respiratory depression, CNS depression (e.g., dizziness, impaired mental function), and sedation. Use together with caution. If a centrally acting medication needs to be used with butorphanol, use the smallest effective dose and the longest dosing frequency of butorphanol.
Cannabidiol: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of cannabidiol and ropinirole. CNS depressants can potentiate the effects of cannabidiol.
carBAMazepine: (Moderate) Carbamazepine induces cytochrome P450 CYP1A2 isoenzymes, which can potentially lead to decreased plasma concentrations of CYP1A2 substrates, such as ropinirole. If these drugs are coadministered, adjustment of ropinirole dose may be required. Decreased anticonvulsant efficacy is a possibility when some antipsychotic or antidepressant agents are administered to patients with a seizure disorder, because some of these drugs lower the seizure threshold. Clinical documentation of interactions is not always available. Clinicians should be alert to altered effects of any of these agents. Dosage adjustments may be necessary, and closer monitoring of clinical and/or adverse effects is warranted.
Carbinoxamine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
Cariprazine: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or ropinirole during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and ropinirole may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with ropinirole than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with ropinirole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with ropinirole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Cenobamate: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of cenobamate and ropinirole. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression. Dopaminergic agents, such as ropinirole, have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Cetirizine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with ropinirole should generally be avoided because of the possibility of additive sedative effects. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with ropinirole should generally be avoided because of the possibility of additive sedative effects. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Chlophedianol; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
Chlorcyclizine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
chlordiazePOXIDE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole. (Moderate) Ropinirole may cause additive drowsiness when combined with tricyclic antidepressants.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with ropinirole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with ropinirole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with ropinirole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with ropinirole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
chlorproMAZINE: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and ropinirole may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic as an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Cimetidine: (Moderate) Coadministration of cimetidine and ropinirole may result in increased ropinirole concentrations. Cimetidine is a weak CYP1A2 inhibitor; ropinirole is a CYP1A2 substrate.
Ciprofloxacin: (Moderate) Ropinirole is primarily metabolized by CYP1A2. Ropinirole clearance has been shown to be reduced by coadministration of inhibitors of CYP1A2, such as ciprofloxacin. Therefore, if therapy with a drug known to be a potent inhibitor or inducer of CYP1A2 is initiated or discontinued during treatment with ropinirole, adjustment of ropinirole dose may be required. Coadministration of ciprofloxacin (500 mg twice daily) with ropinirole (2 mg three times per day) significantly increases ropinirole AUC by 84% on average, and Cmax by 60%.
Clemastine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
cloBAZam: (Moderate) Clobazam, a benzodiazepine, may cause drowsiness or other CNS effects. Potentiation of CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation) may occur when clobazam is combined with other CNS depressants such as ropinirole.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) Ropinirole may cause additive drowsiness when combined with tricyclic antidepressants.
Clorazepate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or ropinirole during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and ropinirole may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with ropinirole than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with ropinirole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with ropinirole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with ropinirole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with ropinirole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with ropinirole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with ropinirole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with ropinirole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with ropinirole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with ropinirole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with ropinirole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and ropinirole may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic as an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with ropinirole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with ropinirole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and ropinirole may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic as an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Conjugated Estrogens: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole and higher doses of estrogens may increase the exposure of ropinirole. A dose adjustment of ropinirole may be needed when estrogen therapy is initiated or discontinued. Some estrogens have reduced ropinirole oral clearance by 36%.
Conjugated Estrogens; Bazedoxifene: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole and higher doses of estrogens may increase the exposure of ropinirole. A dose adjustment of ropinirole may be needed when estrogen therapy is initiated or discontinued. Some estrogens have reduced ropinirole oral clearance by 36%.
Conjugated Estrogens; medroxyPROGESTERone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole and higher doses of estrogens may increase the exposure of ropinirole. A dose adjustment of ropinirole may be needed when estrogen therapy is initiated or discontinued. Some estrogens have reduced ropinirole oral clearance by 36%.
Cyproheptadine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
Desipramine: (Moderate) Ropinirole may cause additive drowsiness when combined with tricyclic antidepressants.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole and higher doses of estrogens may increase the exposure of ropinirole. A dose adjustment of ropinirole may be needed when estrogen therapy is initiated or discontinued. Some estrogens have reduced ropinirole oral clearance by 36%.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole and higher doses of estrogens may increase the exposure of ropinirole. A dose adjustment of ropinirole may be needed when estrogen therapy is initiated or discontinued. Some estrogens have reduced ropinirole oral clearance by 36%.
Deutetrabenazine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of deutetrabenazine and drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as ropinirole, may have additive effects and worsen drowsiness or sedation. Advise patients about worsened somnolence and not to drive or perform other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how deutetrabenazine affects them.
Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
Dexchlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Increased dopaminergic effects may occur during coadministration of methylphenidate derivatives, inhibitors of dopamine reuptake, and dopamine agonists such as pergolide, pramipexole, apomorphine, and ropinirole. Dopaminergic side effects, such as nausea, loss of appetite, weight loss, insomnia, tremor, nervousness, or changes in mood or behavior, are possible.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
Dienogest; Estradiol valerate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole and higher doses of estrogens may increase the exposure of ropinirole. A dose adjustment of ropinirole may be needed when estrogen therapy is initiated or discontinued. Some estrogens have reduced ropinirole oral clearance by 36%.
Difelikefalin: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
dimenhyDRINATE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Moderate) The pharmacologic effects of dopaminergic agents, including dopamine agonists and certain ergot derivatives may be enhanced with use of memantine; dosage adjustments of dopaminergic agents may be required when memantine is coadministered.
Doxepin: (Moderate) Ropinirole may cause additive drowsiness when combined with tricyclic antidepressants.
Doxylamine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
Doxylamine; Pyridoxine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
droPERidol: (Major) Droperidol should be avoided, if possible, in patients treated with ropinirole. Droperidol, a butyrophenone derivative, is a dopamine D2 receptor antagonist and thus, may reduce the therapeutic effects of ropinirole, which is an agonist at dopamine D2 receptors. Additive CNS depressant effects may also be seen.
Drospirenone; Estetrol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole and higher doses of estrogens may increase the exposure of ropinirole. A dose adjustment of ropinirole may be needed when estrogen therapy is initiated or discontinued. Some estrogens have reduced ropinirole oral clearance by 36%.
Drospirenone; Estradiol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole and higher doses of estrogens may increase the exposure of ropinirole. A dose adjustment of ropinirole may be needed when estrogen therapy is initiated or discontinued. Some estrogens have reduced ropinirole oral clearance by 36%.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole and higher doses of estrogens may increase the exposure of ropinirole. A dose adjustment of ropinirole may be needed when estrogen therapy is initiated or discontinued. Some estrogens have reduced ropinirole oral clearance by 36%.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole and higher doses of estrogens may increase the exposure of ropinirole. A dose adjustment of ropinirole may be needed when estrogen therapy is initiated or discontinued. Some estrogens have reduced ropinirole oral clearance by 36%.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole and higher doses of estrogens may increase the exposure of ropinirole. A dose adjustment of ropinirole may be needed when estrogen therapy is initiated or discontinued. Some estrogens have reduced ropinirole oral clearance by 36%.
Enasidenib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole and enasidenib may increase the exposure of ropinirole. A dose adjustment of ropinirole may be needed when therapy with enasidenib is initiated or discontinued. Ropinirole is a CYP1A2 substrate and enasidenib is a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP1A2 inhibitor increased ropinirole exposure by 84%.
Esketamine: (Major) Because of the possibility of additive sedative effects, caution is advisable during concurrent use of dopaminergic agents, such as ropinirole, and CNS depressants, such as esketamine. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients who have received a dose of esketamine should be instructed not to drive or engage in other activities requiring complete mental alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Estazolam: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
Esterified Estrogens: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole and higher doses of estrogens may increase the exposure of ropinirole. A dose adjustment of ropinirole may be needed when estrogen therapy is initiated or discontinued. Some estrogens have reduced ropinirole oral clearance by 36%.
Esterified Estrogens; methylTESTOSTERone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole and higher doses of estrogens may increase the exposure of ropinirole. A dose adjustment of ropinirole may be needed when estrogen therapy is initiated or discontinued. Some estrogens have reduced ropinirole oral clearance by 36%.
Estradiol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole and higher doses of estrogens may increase the exposure of ropinirole. A dose adjustment of ropinirole may be needed when estrogen therapy is initiated or discontinued. Some estrogens have reduced ropinirole oral clearance by 36%.
Estradiol; Levonorgestrel: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole and higher doses of estrogens may increase the exposure of ropinirole. A dose adjustment of ropinirole may be needed when estrogen therapy is initiated or discontinued. Some estrogens have reduced ropinirole oral clearance by 36%.
Estradiol; Norethindrone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole and higher doses of estrogens may increase the exposure of ropinirole. A dose adjustment of ropinirole may be needed when estrogen therapy is initiated or discontinued. Some estrogens have reduced ropinirole oral clearance by 36%.
Estradiol; Norgestimate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole and higher doses of estrogens may increase the exposure of ropinirole. A dose adjustment of ropinirole may be needed when estrogen therapy is initiated or discontinued. Some estrogens have reduced ropinirole oral clearance by 36%.
Estradiol; Progesterone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole and higher doses of estrogens may increase the exposure of ropinirole. A dose adjustment of ropinirole may be needed when estrogen therapy is initiated or discontinued. Some estrogens have reduced ropinirole oral clearance by 36%.
Estrogens: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole and higher doses of estrogens may increase the exposure of ropinirole. A dose adjustment of ropinirole may be needed when estrogen therapy is initiated or discontinued. Some estrogens have reduced ropinirole oral clearance by 36%.
Eszopiclone: (Moderate) Using eszopiclone with ropinirole or other CNS depressants may have cumulative effects and can increase the risk for sedation. A dose reduction may be necessary if eszopiclone is coadministered with other CNS depressants, such as ropinirole.
Ethanol: (Major) Patients should be advised that alcohol use may increase the risk of somnolence during treatment with ropinirole. In addition, the sudden onset of sleep during activities that require active participation (e.g., driving a vehicle, conversations, eating) has occurred during treatment with dopamine agonists, including ropinirole. In some cases, excessive drowsiness due to ropinirole or other dopamine agonists has resulted in auto accidents or other harmful events in the course of daily living. Advise patients to avoid alcohol and notify their healthcare provider if they experience excess sedation or sudden sleep onset while receiving ropinirole.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole and higher doses of estrogens may increase the exposure of ropinirole. A dose adjustment of ropinirole may be needed when estrogen therapy is initiated or discontinued. Some estrogens have reduced ropinirole oral clearance by 36%.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole and higher doses of estrogens may increase the exposure of ropinirole. A dose adjustment of ropinirole may be needed when estrogen therapy is initiated or discontinued. Some estrogens have reduced ropinirole oral clearance by 36%.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole and higher doses of estrogens may increase the exposure of ropinirole. A dose adjustment of ropinirole may be needed when estrogen therapy is initiated or discontinued. Some estrogens have reduced ropinirole oral clearance by 36%.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole and higher doses of estrogens may increase the exposure of ropinirole. A dose adjustment of ropinirole may be needed when estrogen therapy is initiated or discontinued. Some estrogens have reduced ropinirole oral clearance by 36%.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole and higher doses of estrogens may increase the exposure of ropinirole. A dose adjustment of ropinirole may be needed when estrogen therapy is initiated or discontinued. Some estrogens have reduced ropinirole oral clearance by 36%.
Fenfluramine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of fenfluramine and ropinirole. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression. Dopaminergic agents, such as ropinirole, have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
fentaNYL: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with ropinirole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with ropinirole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
fluPHENAZine: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and ropinirole may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic as an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Flurazepam: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
fluvoxaMINE: (Moderate) Ropinirole is primarily metabolized by cytochrome P450 1A2. Ropinirole concentrations may increase when coadministered with inhibitors of CYP1A2, such as fluvoxamine. If fluvoxamine is initiated or discontinued during treatment with ropinirole, adjustment of the ropinirole dose may be required.
Food: (Major) Advise patients to avoid cannabis use while taking CNS depressants due to the risk for additive CNS depression and potential for other cognitive adverse reactions.
Gabapentin: (Major) Initiate gabapentin at the lowest recommended dose and monitor patients for symptoms of sedation and somnolence during coadministration of gabapentin and ropinirole. Concomitant use of gabapentin with ropinirole may cause additive CNS depression. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. Dopaminergic agents, such as ropinirole, have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Haloperidol: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, haloperidol and ropinirole may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic as an alternative to haloperidol. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with ropinirole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with ropinirole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with ropinirole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with ropinirole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with ropinirole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with ropinirole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
HYDROmorphone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with ropinirole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with ropinirole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
hydrOXYzine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
Iloperidone: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or ropinirole during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and ropinirole may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with ropinirole than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Imipramine: (Moderate) Ropinirole may cause additive drowsiness when combined with tricyclic antidepressants.
Lasmiditan: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lasmiditan and ropinirole. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression. Dopaminergic agents, such as ropinirole, have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Lemborexant: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lemborexant and ropinirole. Dosage adjustments of lemborexant and ropinirole may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if lemborexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Levocetirizine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with ropinirole should generally be avoided because of the possibility of additive sedative effects. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole and higher doses of estrogens may increase the exposure of ropinirole. A dose adjustment of ropinirole may be needed when estrogen therapy is initiated or discontinued. Some estrogens have reduced ropinirole oral clearance by 36%.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole and higher doses of estrogens may increase the exposure of ropinirole. A dose adjustment of ropinirole may be needed when estrogen therapy is initiated or discontinued. Some estrogens have reduced ropinirole oral clearance by 36%.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole and higher doses of estrogens may increase the exposure of ropinirole. A dose adjustment of ropinirole may be needed when estrogen therapy is initiated or discontinued. Some estrogens have reduced ropinirole oral clearance by 36%.
Levorphanol: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with ropinirole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with ropinirole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Lofexidine: (Major) Monitor for excessive hypotension and sedation during coadministration of lofexidine and ropinirole. Lofexidine can potentiate the effects of CNS depressants.
LORazepam: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
Loxapine: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, loxapine and dopamine agonists may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic as an alternative to loxapine, if appropriate. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Lumateperone: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or ropinirole during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and ropinirole may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with ropinirole than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Lurasidone: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or ropinirole during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and ropinirole may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with ropinirole than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Meclizine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
Memantine: (Moderate) The pharmacologic effects of dopaminergic agents, including dopamine agonists and certain ergot derivatives may be enhanced with use of memantine; dosage adjustments of dopaminergic agents may be required when memantine is coadministered.
Meperidine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with ropinirole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with ropinirole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Meprobamate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
Methadone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with ropinirole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with ropinirole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Methohexital: (Moderate) Coadministration of ropinirole and barbiturates may result in decreased concentrations of ropinirole. If therapy with barbiturates is initiated or discontinued during treatment with ropinirole, adjustment of ropinirole dose may be required. Ropinirole is primarily metabolized by CYP1A2; barbiturates are inducers of CYP1A2. Also, somnolence is a commonly reported adverse effect of ropinirole; coadministration of ropinirole with barbiturates may result in additive sedative effects.
Methylphenidate Derivatives: (Moderate) Increased dopaminergic effects may occur during coadministration of methylphenidate derivatives, inhibitors of dopamine reuptake, and dopamine agonists such as pergolide, pramipexole, apomorphine, and ropinirole. Dopaminergic side effects, such as nausea, loss of appetite, weight loss, insomnia, tremor, nervousness, or changes in mood or behavior, are possible.
Methylphenidate: (Moderate) Increased dopaminergic effects may occur during coadministration of methylphenidate derivatives, inhibitors of dopamine reuptake, and dopamine agonists such as pergolide, pramipexole, apomorphine, and ropinirole. Dopaminergic side effects, such as nausea, loss of appetite, weight loss, insomnia, tremor, nervousness, or changes in mood or behavior, are possible.
Metoclopramide: (Moderate) Agents with dopamine antagonist properties, like metoclopramide, may decrease the effectiveness of dopamine agonists. These agents can cause abrupt and severe worsening of Parkinson's disease or restless leg syndrome (RLS) symptoms. Metoclopramide should be avoided, if possible, in patients treated with dopamine agonists for Parkinson's disease. If not avoidable, monitor for reduced efficacy of the dopamine agonist. Additive somnolence may also be possible.
metyraPONE: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as ropinirole, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Mexiletine: (Moderate) Ropinirole and mexiletine are both substrates and inhibitors of CYP1A2. Coadministration may result in increased serum concentrations of either agent.
Mirtazapine: (Moderate) Some medicines used for treatment of Parkinson's disease, like ropinirole, could potentially cause additive drowsiness when coadministered with mirtazapine.
Molindone: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, molindone and dopamine agonists may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic as an alternative to molindone. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Morphine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with ropinirole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with ropinirole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole and higher doses of estrogens may increase the exposure of ropinirole. A dose adjustment of ropinirole may be needed when estrogen therapy is initiated or discontinued. Some estrogens have reduced ropinirole oral clearance by 36%.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole and higher doses of estrogens may increase the exposure of ropinirole. A dose adjustment of ropinirole may be needed when estrogen therapy is initiated or discontinued. Some estrogens have reduced ropinirole oral clearance by 36%.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole and higher doses of estrogens may increase the exposure of ropinirole. A dose adjustment of ropinirole may be needed when estrogen therapy is initiated or discontinued. Some estrogens have reduced ropinirole oral clearance by 36%.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole and higher doses of estrogens may increase the exposure of ropinirole. A dose adjustment of ropinirole may be needed when estrogen therapy is initiated or discontinued. Some estrogens have reduced ropinirole oral clearance by 36%.
Nortriptyline: (Moderate) Ropinirole may cause additive drowsiness when combined with tricyclic antidepressants.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or ropinirole during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and ropinirole may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with ropinirole than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or ropinirole during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and ropinirole may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with ropinirole than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or ropinirole during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and ropinirole may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with ropinirole than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Oliceridine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with ropinirole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with ropinirole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Opiate Agonists: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with ropinirole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with ropinirole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Oxazepam: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
oxyCODONE: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with ropinirole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with ropinirole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
oxyMORphone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with ropinirole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with ropinirole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Paliperidone: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or ropinirole during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and ropinirole may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with ropinirole than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Peginterferon Alfa-2b: (Moderate) If peginterferon alfa-2b and ropinirole are coadministered, a downward adjustment of ropinirole dose may be required. Peginterferon alfa-2b is a CYP1A2 inhibitor, while ropinirole is a CYP1A2 substrate. Drug interaction studies have shown that coadministration of a potent inhibitor of CYP1A2 increases the ropinirole AUC (exposure) by an average of 84% and maximal concentration (Cmax) by an average of 60%. Monitor for excessive side effects of ropinirole, such as sedation, difficulty staying alert, nausea, vomiting, dizziness or feeling faint, hallucinations, or problems with impulse control. Consider a decrease in ropinirole drug dosage if such side effects occur.
PENTobarbital: (Moderate) Coadministration of ropinirole and barbiturates may result in decreased concentrations of ropinirole. If therapy with barbiturates is initiated or discontinued during treatment with ropinirole, adjustment of ropinirole dose may be required. Ropinirole is primarily metabolized by CYP1A2; barbiturates are inducers of CYP1A2. Also, somnolence is a commonly reported adverse effect of ropinirole; coadministration of ropinirole with barbiturates may result in additive sedative effects.
Perampanel: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as ropinirole.
Perphenazine: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and ropinirole may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic as an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and ropinirole may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic as an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors. (Moderate) Ropinirole may cause additive drowsiness when combined with tricyclic antidepressants.
PHENobarbital: (Moderate) Coadministration of ropinirole and barbiturates may result in decreased concentrations of ropinirole. If therapy with barbiturates is initiated or discontinued during treatment with ropinirole, adjustment of ropinirole dose may be required. Ropinirole is primarily metabolized by CYP1A2; barbiturates are inducers of CYP1A2. Also, somnolence is a commonly reported adverse effect of ropinirole; coadministration of ropinirole with barbiturates may result in additive sedative effects.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Moderate) Coadministration of ropinirole and barbiturates may result in decreased concentrations of ropinirole. If therapy with barbiturates is initiated or discontinued during treatment with ropinirole, adjustment of ropinirole dose may be required. Ropinirole is primarily metabolized by CYP1A2; barbiturates are inducers of CYP1A2. Also, somnolence is a commonly reported adverse effect of ropinirole; coadministration of ropinirole with barbiturates may result in additive sedative effects.
Phenothiazines: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and ropinirole may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic as an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Pimozide: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, pimozide and ropinirole may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic as an alternative to pimozide. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Pregabalin: (Major) Initiate pregabalin at the lowest recommended dose and monitor patients for symptoms of sedation and somnolence during coadministration of pregabalin and ropinirole. Concomitant use of pregabalin with ropinirole may cause additive CNS depression. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. Dopaminergic agents, such as ropinirole, have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Primidone: (Moderate) Coadministration of ropinirole and barbiturates may result in decreased concentrations of ropinirole. If therapy with barbiturates is initiated or discontinued during treatment with ropinirole, adjustment of ropinirole dose may be required. Ropinirole is primarily metabolized by CYP1A2; barbiturates are inducers of CYP1A2. Also, somnolence is a commonly reported adverse effect of ropinirole; coadministration of ropinirole with barbiturates may result in additive sedative effects.
Prochlorperazine: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and ropinirole may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic as an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Promethazine: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and ropinirole may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic as an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and ropinirole may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic as an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and ropinirole may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic as an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Protriptyline: (Moderate) Ropinirole may cause additive drowsiness when combined with tricyclic antidepressants.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
Quazepam: (Major) Concomitant administration of quazepam with CNS-depressant drugs, such as ropinirole, can potentiate the CNS effects, including increased sedation or respiratory depression, of either agent.
QUEtiapine: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or ropinirole during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and ropinirole may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with ropinirole than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole and higher doses of estrogens may increase the exposure of ropinirole. A dose adjustment of ropinirole may be needed when estrogen therapy is initiated or discontinued. Some estrogens have reduced ropinirole oral clearance by 36%.
Remifentanil: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with ropinirole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with ropinirole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
rifAMPin: (Major) Ropinirole is primarily metabolized by cytochrome P450 1A2. Ropinirole clearance may be altered by coadministration of substrates or inhibitors of CYP1A2. Therefore, if therapy with a drug known to be a potent inducer of CYP1A2, such as rifampin, is initiated or discontinued during treatment with ropinirole, adjustment of ropinirole dose may be required.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or ropinirole during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and ropinirole may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with ropinirole than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Secobarbital: (Moderate) Coadministration of ropinirole and barbiturates may result in decreased concentrations of ropinirole. If therapy with barbiturates is initiated or discontinued during treatment with ropinirole, adjustment of ropinirole dose may be required. Ropinirole is primarily metabolized by CYP1A2; barbiturates are inducers of CYP1A2. Also, somnolence is a commonly reported adverse effect of ropinirole; coadministration of ropinirole with barbiturates may result in additive sedative effects.
Sedating H1-blockers: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole and higher doses of estrogens may increase the exposure of ropinirole. A dose adjustment of ropinirole may be needed when estrogen therapy is initiated or discontinued. Some estrogens have reduced ropinirole oral clearance by 36%.
Serdexmethylphenidate; Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Increased dopaminergic effects may occur during coadministration of methylphenidate derivatives, inhibitors of dopamine reuptake, and dopamine agonists such as pergolide, pramipexole, apomorphine, and ropinirole. Dopaminergic side effects, such as nausea, loss of appetite, weight loss, insomnia, tremor, nervousness, or changes in mood or behavior, are possible.
Solriamfetol: (Moderate) Monitor for dopamine-mediated effects including nausea, vomiting, dizziness, tremor, and changes in moods or behaviors if solriamfetol, a central dopamine and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor, is administered with other dopaminergic drugs, such as ropinirole. Caution is recommended since this combination has not been evaluated.
Stiripentol: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of stiripentol and ropinirole. CNS depressants can potentiate the effects of stiripentol.
SUFentanil: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with ropinirole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with ropinirole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Suvorexant: (Moderate) CNS depressant drugs may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with suvorexant. A reduction in dose of the CNS depressant may be needed in some cases.
Tapentadol: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with ropinirole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with ropinirole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Teriflunomide: (Moderate) Teriflunomide is a weak inducer of CYP1A2, which may lead to decreased plasma concentrations of ropinirole, a CYP1A2 substrate. If these drugs are coadministered, adjustment of ropinirole dosage may be required.
Thalidomide: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of thalidomide with other central nervous system depressants such as ropinirole due to the potential for additive sedative effects.
Thioridazine: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and ropinirole may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic as an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Thiothixene: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, thiothixene and dopamine agonists may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic instead of thiothixene, if appropriate. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Tobacco: (Major) Advise patients to avoid smoking tobacco while taking ropinirole. Tobacco smoking may increase the clearance of ropinirole via CYP1A2 induction, leading to reduced efficacy of ropinirole. In one study in patients with restless leg syndrome (RLS), cigarette smokers had an approximately 38% lower ropinirole AUC than did nonsmokers when normalized for dose.
Tradipitant: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
traMADol: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with ropinirole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with ropinirole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with ropinirole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with ropinirole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Triazolam: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Moderate) Ropinirole may cause additive drowsiness when combined with tricyclic antidepressants.
Trifluoperazine: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and ropinirole may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic as an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Trimipramine: (Moderate) Ropinirole may cause additive drowsiness when combined with tricyclic antidepressants.
Triprolidine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
Vemurafenib: (Moderate) Vemurafenib inhibits CYP1A2, which can potentially lead to increased plasma concentrations of ropinirole, a CYP1A2 substrate. If these drugs are coadministered, adjustment of ropinirole dose may be required.
Viloxazine: (Moderate) A dose adjustment of ropinirole may be needed when therapy with viloxazine is initiated or discontinued. Concomitant use of ropinirole and viloxazine may increase the exposure of ropinirole. Ropinirole is a CYP1A2 substrate and viloxazine is a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP1A2 inhibitor increased ropinirole exposure by 84%.
Warfarin: (Moderate) A possible drug interaction between ropinirole and warfarin has been reported clinically, with a resultant increase in the INR. While no signs of bleeding occurred in the reported case, the increase in INR necessitated a warfarin dosage adjustment during concurrent treatment. After ropinirole was discontinued, the warfarin dosage had to be adjusted upward. Closely monitor the INR when starting or stopping ropinirole therapy in a patient stabilized on warfarin.
Zaleplon: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants, such as zaleplon, can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
Ziconotide: (Moderate) Ropinirole is a CNS depressant medication that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Zileuton: (Major) Zileuton inhibits cytochrome P450 CYP1A2 isoenzymes, which can potentially lead to increased plasma concentrations of CYP1A2 substrates, such as ropinirole. If these drugs are coadministered, adjustment of ropinirole dose may be required.
Ziprasidone: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or ropinirole during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and ropinirole may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with ropinirole than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Zolpidem: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants, such as zolpidem, can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole. If used together, a reduction in the dose of one or both drugs may be needed. For Intermezzo brand of sublingual zolpidem tablets, reduce the dose to 1.75 mg/night.
Zuranolone: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  Autonomic nervous system adverse reactions have been reported in patients receiving ropinirole alone and in combination with L-dopa. The most commonly observed (> 5% and at a greater frequency than placebo) autonomic adverse reactions in Parkinson's disease patients receiving immediate-release ropinirole alone included diaphoresis, flushing, and xerostomia. Diaphoresis and xerostomia were the most common autonomic adverse reactions in ropinirole plus L-dopa treated patients and in patients utilizing ropinirole for restless legs syndrome.
 
Adverse reactions affecting the body as a whole have been reported in patients receiving ropinirole alone and in combination with L-dopa. The most commonly observed (> 5% and at a greater frequency than placebo) adverse reactions affecting the body as a whole in Parkinson's disease patients receiving immediate-release ropinirole alone included asthenia (weakness), chest pain (unspecified), dependent edema, fatigue, malaise, pain, and peripheral edema. Pain was the most common adverse reaction affecting the body as a whole in ropinirole plus L-dopa treated patients. Fatigue, peripheral edema, hyperhidrosis, night sweats, hot flashes, and rash (unspecified) have also been reported in patients receiving ropinirole for restless legs syndrome.
 
Cardiovascular adverse reactions have been reported in patients receiving ropinirole alone and in combination with L-dopa. The most commonly observed (> 5% and at a greater frequency than placebo) cardiovascular adverse reactions in Parkinson's disease patients receiving immediate-release ropinirole alone included atrial fibrillation, extrasystoles, hypertension, hypotension, orthostatic hypotension, palpitations, sinus tachycardia, and syncope (sometimes with sinus bradycardia). Most syncope cases occurring with ropinirole monotherapy were reported more than 4 weeks after initiation of ropinirole therapy and were usually associated with a recent increase in dose. Ropinirole therapy was associated with syncope in both early Parkinson's disease (without L-dopa; 11.5% ropinirole vs. 1.4% placebo) patients and advanced Parkinson's disease (with L-dopa; 2.9% ropinirole vs. 1.7% placebo) patients. Further, ropinirole-induced orthostatic hypotension is thought to be due to dopamine D2-mediated blunting of the noradrenergic response. Hypotension and syncope were the most common cardiovascular adverse reactions reported in patients treated with ropinirole and L-dopa combination therapy. In phase 1 studies that included 110 healthy volunteers, nine subjects had documented symptomatic orthostatic hypotension. These episodes appeared mainly at doses above 0.8 mg and were higher than the starting doses recommended for Parkinson's disease patients. In eight of these nine volunteers, the hypotension was accompanied by bradycardia, but did not develop into syncope. During clinical trials with extended-release ropinirole for Parkinson's disease, syncope occurred in 1% of those receiving active drug versus none in the placebo group. Hypotension was reported in 2% of patients receiving active drug compared to none in the placebo group. Orthostatic hypotension was reported in 5% and 1% of patients on active drug and placebo, respectively. In patients with restless legs syndrome (RLS) receiving treatment with ropinirole, there were reports of syncope in 1% compared with 0.2% patients treated with placebo. However, in Phase II studies in patients with RLS, up to 25% of patients experienced hypotension or postural hypotension vs. 0% receiving placebo while undergoing standard dose titrations of ropinirole. In a clinical trial evaluating extended-release ropinirole for advanced Parkinson's disease, severe systolic blood pressure increases (>= 40 mm Hg) occurred in 8% of those on active drug versus 5% on placebo in the semi-supine position. While standing, the frequency increased to 9% in the ropinirole group and 6% in the placebo group.
 
Adverse reactions affecting the central and peripheral nervous systems have been reported in patients receiving ropinirole alone and in combination with L-dopa. The most commonly observed (> 5% and at a greater frequency than placebo) adverse reactions affecting the CNS/peripheral nervous systems in Parkinson's disease patients receiving immediate-release ropinirole alone included dizziness, hyperesthesia, restlessness, and vertigo. Dizziness, dyskinesia, falls, headache, hypokinesia, paresis, paresthesias, and tremor were the most common adverse reactions affecting the CNS/peripheral nervous systems in ropinirole plus L-dopa treated patients. Dizziness (11% vs. 5 % placebo), hypoesthesia, vertigo (2% vs. 1%), migraines, neuralgia, and paresthesias (3% vs. 1% placebo) have also been reported in patients using ropinirole for restless legs syndrome.
 
Gastrointestinal system adverse reactions have been reported in patients receiving ropinirole alone and in combination with L-dopa. The most commonly observed (> 5% and at a greater frequency than placebo) gastrointestinal system adverse reactions in Parkinson's disease patients receiving immediate-release ropinirole alone included abdominal pain, anorexia, dyspepsia, flatulence, and nausea/vomiting. Abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, dysphagia, flatulence, hypersalivation, and nausea/vomiting were the most common gastrointestinal system adverse reactions in ropinirole plus L-dopa treated patients. In clinical trials of patients with restless legs syndrome, nausea/vomiting (40%/11% ropinirole vs. 8%/2% placebo) was the most common GI disturbance. Constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, gastroesophageal reflux disease, and abdominal pain were also reported in this patient population.
 
Fibrotic complications have been reported in some patients treated with ergot-derived dopaminergic agents. Although these adverse reactions are believed to be related to the ergoline structure of these compounds, it is not known if other nonergot derived dopamine agonists (e.g., ropinirole) can cause them.
 
Adverse reactions affecting the metabolic and nutritional systems have been reported in patients receiving ropinirole alone and in combination with L-dopa. The most commonly observed (> 5% and at a greater frequency than placebo) adverse reaction affecting the metabolic and nutritional systems in Parkinson's disease patients receiving immediate-release ropinirole alone was increased alkaline phosphatase. Weight loss was the most common adverse reaction affecting the metabolic and nutritional systems in ropinirole plus L-dopa treated patients.
 
Musculoskeletal system adverse reactions have been reported in patients receiving ropinirole in combination with L-dopa. The most commonly observed (> 5% and at a greater frequency than placebo) musculoskeletal system adverse reactions in Parkinson's disease patients receiving immediate-release ropinirole in combination with L-dopa were arthralgia and arthritis. Muscle spasms, musculoskeletal stiffness, myalgia, neck pain, osteoarthritis, and tendonitis have also been reported frequently in patients using ropinirole for restless legs syndrome, although causality is difficult to assign.
 
Although not reported with ropinirole, a symptom complex resembling the neuroleptic malignant syndrome (characterized by fever, muscular rigidity, altered consciousness, and autonomic instability), with no other obvious etiology, has been reported in association with rapid dose reduction, withdrawal of, or changes in anti-Parkinsonian therapy.
 
Impotence (erectile dysfunction), peripheral ischemia, and viral infection have been reported in Parkinson's disease patients receiving ropinirole alone. Anemia and upper respiratory tract infections were reported in Parkinson's disease patients receiving ropinirole in combination with L-dopa. Certain types of infections (bronchitis, gastroenteritis, lower respiratory tract infection, tooth abscess) were reported frequently during Phase II and III studies of immediate-release ropinirole for restless legs syndrome; however, causality is difficult to determine. Urinary system adverse reactions were also reported in patients receiving ropinirole alone and in combination with L-dopa. The most common (> 5% and at a greater frequency than placebo) urinary system adverse reaction in Parkinson's disease patients receiving ropinirole alone was urinary tract infection. Pyuria, urinary incontinence, and urinary tract infection were the most common urinary system adverse reactions in ropinirole plus L-dopa treated patients. Erectile dysfunction was reported frequently in Phase II and III restless leg syndrome studies; however causality is difficult to assign.
 
Drowsiness is one of the most commonly observed (> 5% and at a greater frequency than placebo) side effects in patients receiving ropinirole, either alone or in combination with other drugs. In controlled clinical trials with immediate-release ropinirole, somnolence was a common occurrence in patients receiving ropinirole and was more frequent in patients with Parkinson's disease (up to 40% ropinirole vs. 6% placebo) than in restless legs syndrome (12% ropinirole vs. 6% placebo). In clinical trials with extended-release ropinirole for Parkinson's disease, somnolence was reported in 7% of patients receiving active drug versus 4% of patients receiving placebo. In a separate clinical trial, somnolence was reported in 11% and 15% of patients receiving extended-release and immediate-release ropinirole, respectively. There have been at least 60 post-market reports of patients who have experienced sudden sleep onset while driving or performing other normal daytime activities when taking this medication. The episodes have occurred as late as one year after the initiation of treatment. Excessive and acute lethargy due to ropinirole has resulted in auto accidents or other harmful events in the course of daily living in some patients. A few fatalities have been reported as a result of auto accidents. During clinical trials with extended-release ropinirole (n=613), there were 5 cases of sudden sleep onset and 2 auto accidents. Some patients have reported feeling completely alert prior to these events. It is not clear whether the medication, the sleep-status of the patient, or Parkinson's disease itself is contributing to these episodes; a number of factors may be related to the sudden loss of alertness. Patients should be cautioned against driving or operating machinery, working at heights, or performing other tasks that require alertness while receiving ropinirole. The use of concomitant CNS depressant medications or sleep disorders may increase the risk of falling asleep while taking this medication; patients should be assessed for these risk factors prior to initiation of the drug and be advised of the additive risks for somnolence. Patients should be continually reevaluated for the presence of excessive sedation during treatment and should notify their prescriber if they fall asleep during normal activities. Ropinirole should generally be discontinued in those who experience episodes of falling asleep while engaged in activities of daily living. It is not known if a reduction in dosage will subsequently reduce or eliminate excessive somnolence or sudden episodes of sleep.
 
Psychiatric adverse reactions have been reported in patients receiving ropinirole alone and in combination with L-dopa. Commonly observed (> 5% and at a greater frequency than placebo) psychiatric adverse reactions in Parkinson's disease patients receiving immediate-release ropinirole alone included amnesia, impaired concentration, confusion, hallucinations, and yawning. Amnesia, anxiety, confusion, abnormal dreaming, hallucinations, nervousness, and somnolence were the most common psychiatric adverse reactions in ropinirole plus L-dopa treated patients. During Phase III clinical trials, hallucinations were not reported in patients receiving ropinirole for Restless Leg Syndrome. In a clinical trial evaluating extended-release ropinirole for Parkinson's disease, hallucinations were reported in 8% of those receiving active drug compared to 2% of those receiving placebo. Discontinuation of treatment due to hallucinations occurred in 2% and 1% of patients receiving ropinirole and placebo, respectively. During a comparison study, hallucination was reported in 15% of those receiving extended-release ropinirole plus L-dopa and entacapone versus 6% of those in the ropinirole/L-dopa group and none in the entacapone/L-dopa group. Hallucinations occur at a higher frequency in the geriatric patient, those being treated for Parkinson's Disease, those receiving high doses of ropinirole, and/or those taking concomitant L-dopa.
 
Some patients receiving medications that increase dopaminergic tone have reported intense and uncontrollable urges to gamble, increased sexual urges, or other intense urges. Causality due to dopaminergic agents has not been established; however, in some cases, the urges stopped after the dose was reduced or the drug was discontinued. Practitioners should inquire periodically about new or worsening impulse control symptoms in patients receiving ropinirole. Likewise, patients should be instructed to report such changes while receiving ropinirole. Dose reduction or discontinuation should be considered in those who experience these effects.
 
Adverse reactions affecting the respiratory system have been reported in patients receiving ropinirole alone and in combination with L-dopa. The most commonly observed (> 5% and at a greater frequency than placebo) adverse reactions affecting the respiratory system in Parkinson's disease patients receiving immediate-release ropinirole alone were bronchitis, dyspnea, pharyngitis, rhinitis, and sinusitis. Dyspnea was the most common adverse reaction affecting the respiratory system in ropinirole plus L-dopa treated patients. Asthma, nasopharyngitis and influenza have been reported in patients receiving ropinirole for restless legs syndrome; however, due to similar incidences in the placebo group causality is difficult to assess.
 
Adverse reactions affecting vision have been reported in patients receiving ropinirole alone and in combination with L-dopa. The most commonly observed (> 5% and at a greater frequency than placebo) adverse reactions affecting vision in Parkinson's disease patients receiving immediate-release ropinirole alone were eye abnormality, visual impairment, and xerophthalmia. Diplopia was the most common adverse reaction affecting the ocular system in ropinirole plus L-dopa treated patients. Further, animal data has shown that ropinirole binds to melanin-containing tissues (i.e., eyes, skin). These data indicate long-term retention of ropinirole with an ocular half-life of 20 days. It is not known if ropinirole accumulates in these tissues over time.
 
Ropinirole may suppress serum prolactin concentrations. At oral doses as low as 0.2 mg, ropinirole suppressed serum prolactin concentrations in healthy males.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    angioedema, flushing, hyperhidrosis, pruritus, rash (unspecified), urticaria
    General Information
    Dermatologic adverse reactions have been reported in patients receiving ropinirole alone and in combination with L-dopa. The most commonly observed dermatologic adverse reactions in patients with early Parkinson's disease receiving monotherapy with immediate-release ropinirole and reported at incidences greater than placebo included hyperhidrosis (6%) and flushing (3%). Hyperhidrosis (7%) was the most common dermatologic effect in ropinirole plus L-dopa treated patients with advanced Parkinson's disease. Hyperhidrosis (3%) was also reported more frequently in patients receiving immediate-release ropinirole than placebo during clinical trials for restless legs syndrome. Advise patients about the potential for developing a hypersensitivity reaction which may include symptoms such as urticaria, angioedema, rash (unspecified), and pruritus when taking any ropinirole product.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      flushing
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      hyperhidrosis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    asthenia, chest pain (unspecified), edema, peripheral edema
    General Information
    Adverse reactions affecting the body as a whole have been reported in patients receiving ropinirole alone and in combination with L-dopa. The most commonly observed general adverse reactions reported in patients with early Parkinson's disease receiving monotherapy with immediate-release ropinirole and reported at greater incidences versus placebo included asthenia (16%), chest pain (unspecified) (4%), dependent edema (6%), pain (8%), peripheral ischemia (3%), and peripheral edema (7%). Pain (5%) and peripheral edema (4%) were the most common adverse reactions affecting the body as a whole in patients with advanced Parkinson's disease receiving immediate-release or extended-release ropinirole plus L-dopa versus placebo. Asthenia (9%) and peripheral edema (2%) were reported more frequently in patients receiving immediate-release ropinirole than placebo during clinical trials for restless legs syndrome (RLS).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      chest pain (unspecified)
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    atrial fibrillation, bradycardia, hypertension, hypotension, orthostatic hypotension, palpitations, sinus tachycardia, syncope
    General Information
    Cardiovascular adverse reactions have been reported in patients receiving ropinirole alone and in combination with L-dopa. The most commonly observed cardiovascular adverse reactions in patients with early Parkinson's disease receiving monotherapy with immediate-release or extended-release ropinirole occurring at higher incidences versus placebo included atrial fibrillation (2%), extrasystoles (2%), hypertension (up to 15%), hypotension (2%), orthostatic hypotension (6%), palpitations (3%), sinus tachycardia (2%), and syncope (12%, syncope sometimes occurred with bradycardia). In patients with advanced Parkinson's disease receiving immediate-release or extended-release ropinirole plus L-dopa, the following cardiac effects occurred more frequently with active treatment than placebo: hypotension (2%), hypertension (1% to 8%), orthostatic hypotension (5%), and syncope (3%). In patients with restless legs syndrome (RLS) receiving treatment with immediate-release ropinirole, there were reports of syncope in 1% of ropinirole-treated patients. In a fixed-dose trial of extended-release ropinirole in combination with L-dopa in advanced Parkinson's disease, orthostatic hypotension (systolic blood pressure reduction of at least 20 mmHg) was reported more frequently in ropinirole-treated patients (38%) than placebo-treated patients. There was no clear effect of extended-release ropinirole on average heart rate. Most syncope cases occurring with ropinirole monotherapy were reported more than 4 weeks after initiation of ropinirole therapy and were usually associated with a recent increase in dose. Further, ropinirole-induced orthostatic hypotension is thought to be due to dopamine D2-mediated blunting of the noradrenergic response. Hypotension and syncope were the most common cardiovascular adverse reactions reported in patients treated with ropinirole and L-dopa combination therapy. In a clinical trial evaluating extended-release ropinirole in combination with L-dopa for advanced Parkinson's disease, severe systolic blood pressure increases (40 mmHg or more) occurred in 8% of those on active drug in the semi-supine position. While standing, the frequency increased to 9% in the ropinirole group.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      atrial fibrillation
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      orthostatic hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      palpitations
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      sinus tachycardia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      syncope
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      bradycardia
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    dizziness, dyskinesia, headache, hyperesthesia, hyperkinesis, insomnia, paresis, paresthesias, tremor, vertigo, yawning
    General Information
    Adverse reactions affecting the central and peripheral nervous systems have been reported in patients receiving ropinirole alone and in combination with L-dopa. The most commonly observed adverse reactions affecting the CNS/peripheral nervous systems in patients with early Parkinson's disease receiving monotherapy with immediate-release or extended-release ropinirole and with incidences greater than placebo included dizziness (up to 40%), hyperkinesis (2%), hyperesthesia (4%), yawning (3%), headache (5% to 15%), and vertigo (2%). The most common adverse reactions affecting the CNS/peripheral nervous systems in patients with advanced Parkinson's disease receiving immediate-release or extended-release ropinirole plus L-dopa and more frequently than placebo included dizziness (4% to 26%), dyskinesia (4% to 34%), falls (2% to 10%), headache (17%), hypokinesia (5%), paresis (3%), paresthesias (5%), tremor (6%), vertigo (4%), and insomnia (up to 5%). CNS effects reported more frequently in patients receiving immediate-release ropinirole than placebo for restless legs syndrome (RLS) included dizziness (11%), paresthesias (3%), and vertigo (2%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyskinesia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperesthesia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      paresis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      paresthesias
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vertigo
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperkinesis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      tremor
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      yawning
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    drowsiness, lethargy, sudden sleep onset
    General Information
    Drowsiness is one of the most commonly observed side effects in patients receiving ropinirole, either alone or in combination with other drugs. In placebo-controlled clinical trials of ropinirole monotherapy in patients with early Parkinson's disease, less patients receiving placebo experienced somnolence than patients treated with immediate-release ropinirole (40%) or extended-release ropinirole (8% to 15%). In patients with advanced Parkinson's disease receiving immediate-release or extended-release ropinirole plus L-dopa therapy, somnolence/drowsiness was reported in up to 20% of patients in the active treatment group. Somnolence occurred less frequently during clinical trials of immediate-release ropinirole for restless legs syndrome (12%). Dopamine agonists, including ropinirole, have been associated with sudden sleep onset while driving or performing other normal daytime activities. Excessive and acute lethargy has resulted in auto accidents or other harmful events in the course of daily living, including fatalities resulting from auto accidents. The episodes have occurred as late as 1 year after the initiation of treatment. Some patients have reported feeling completely alert prior to these events. It is not clear whether the medication, the sleep status of the patient, or Parkinson's disease itself is contributing to these episodes; a number of factors may be related to the sudden loss of alertness. During clinical trials of extended-release ropinirole, sudden sleep onset occurred more frequently in patients with advanced Parkinson's disease receiving ropinirole plus L-dopa (up to 8%) and patients with early Parkinson's disease not receiving L-dopa (up to 10%) compared to placebo. The incidence of sudden sleep onset was not dose-related. In a flexible-dose trial of extended-release ropinirole, sudden sleep onset was reported in less than 1% of patients, and less than 1% of patients reported a motor vehicle accident in which it is not known if falling asleep was a contributing factor. Patients should be cautioned against driving or operating machinery, working at heights, or performing other tasks that require alertness while receiving ropinirole. The use of concomitant CNS depressant medications or sleep disorders may increase the risk of falling asleep while taking this medication; patients should be assessed for these risk factors prior to initiation of the drug and be advised of the additive risks for somnolence. Patients should be continually reevaluated for the presence of excessive sedation during treatment and should notify their prescriber if they fall asleep during normal activities. Ropinirole should generally be discontinued in those who experience episodes of falling asleep while engaged in activities of daily living. It is not known if a reduction in dosage will subsequently reduce or eliminate excessive somnolence or sudden episodes of sleep.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      lethargy
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      sudden sleep onset
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    abnormal dreams, amnesia, anxiety, confusion, hallucinations
    General Information
    Psychiatric adverse reactions have been reported in patients receiving ropinirole alone and in combination with L-dopa. Commonly observed psychiatric adverse reactions reported in patients with early Parkinson's disease receiving monotherapy with immediate-release ropinirole and rated higher than placebo included amnesia (3%), impaired concentration (2%), confusion (5%), and hallucinations (5%). Amnesia (5%), anxiety (2% to 6%), confusion (9%), abnormal dreams (3%), hallucinations (8% to 10%), and nervousness (5%) were the most common psychiatric adverse reactions in ropinirole plus L-dopa treated patients with advanced Parkinson's disease. Discontinuation of treatment due to hallucinations occurred in 2% of patients receiving extended-release ropinirole versus 1% of those taking placebo. Psychotic-like behavior may manifest as hallucinations, confusion, paranoia, aggression, agitation, delusions, and/or disorganized thinking. Hallucinations occur at a higher frequency in the geriatric patient, those being treated for Parkinson's disease, those receiving high doses of ropinirole, and/or those taking concomitant L-dopa.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      amnesia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anxiety
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      confusion
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hallucinations
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      abnormal dreams
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    impulse control symptoms
    General Information
    Impulse control symptoms and compulsive behaviors, such as aggressive behavior, compulsive spending or buying, binge or compulsive eating, have been reported during postmarket use of ropinirole. Some patients receiving medications that increase dopaminergic tone have reported intense and uncontrollable urges to gamble, increased sexual urges, or other intense urges. Causality due to dopaminergic agents has not been established; however, in some cases, the urges stopped after the dose was reduced or the drug was discontinued. Because patients may not recognize these behaviors as abnormal, it is important for prescribers to specifically ask patients or their caregivers about the development of new or increased gambling urges, sexual urges, uncontrolled spending, binge or compulsive eating, or other urges while being treated with ropinirole. Dose reduction or discontinuation should be considered in those who experience these effects.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      impulse control symptoms
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, dysphagia, flatulence, hypersalivation, nausea, vomiting, xerostomia
    General Information
    Gastrointestinal (GI) system adverse reactions have been reported in patients receiving ropinirole alone and in combination with L-dopa. The most commonly observed GI adverse reactions reported in patients with early Parkinson's disease receiving monotherapy with immediate-release or extended-release ropinirole and at rates higher than placebo included abdominal pain (6%), dyspepsia (10%), flatulence (3%), xerostomia (5%), nausea (8% to 60%), and vomiting (up to 12%). Abdominal pain (6% to 9%), constipation (4% to 6%), diarrhea (3% to 5%), dysphagia (2%), flatulence (2%), hypersalivation (2%), xerostomia (2% to 5%), nausea (11% to 30%), and vomiting (7%) were the most common GI system adverse reactions in ropinirole plus L-dopa treated patients with advanced Parkinson's disease. During fixed-dose trials of extended-release ropinirole plus L-dopa in patients with advanced Parkinson's disease, nausea and vomiting were more common in patients greater than 65 years (9% and 5%, respectively) than in patients less than 65 years (7% and 1%, respectively). In clinical trials of immediate-release ropinirole in patients with restless legs syndrome (RLS), the following GI effects occurred in more ropinirole-treated patients than placebo-treated patients: nausea (40%), vomiting (11%), diarrhea (5%), dyspepsia (4%), xerostomia (3%), and upper abdominal pain (3%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspepsia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dysphagia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      flatulence
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypersalivation
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anorexia, weight loss
    General Information
    Adverse reactions affecting the metabolic and nutritional systems have been reported in patients receiving ropinirole alone and in combination with L-dopa. The most commonly observed adverse reactions affecting the metabolic and nutritional systems in patients with early Parkinson's disease receiving monotherapy with immediate-release ropinirole and at rates higher than placebo were increased alkaline phosphatase (3%) and anorexia (4%). Weight loss (2%) was the most common adverse reaction affecting the metabolic and nutritional systems in ropinirole plus L-dopa treated patients with advanced Parkinson's disease.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      weight loss
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    impotence (erectile dysfunction), pyuria, urinary incontinence
    General Information
    Genitourinary and reproductive adverse reactions have been reported in patients receiving ropinirole alone and in combination with L-dopa. The most common reproductive system adverse reaction reported in patients with early Parkinson's disease receiving immediate-release ropinirole monotherapy was impotence (erectile dysfunction) (3%). Pyuria (2%) and urinary incontinence (2%) were the most common urinary system adverse reactions in ropinirole plus L-dopa treated patients with advanced Parkinson's disease.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      impotence (erectile dysfunction)
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pyuria
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      urinary incontinence
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    arthralgia, back pain, muscle cramps
    General Information
    Musculoskeletal system adverse reactions have been reported in patients receiving ropinirole with or without L-dopa. Back pain (up to 15%) was reported more frequently in patients with early Parkinson's disease receiving monotherapy with ropinirole than in those receiving placebo. The most commonly observed musculoskeletal system adverse reactions in patients with advanced Parkinson's disease receiving immediate-release or extended-release ropinirole in combination with L-dopa were arthralgia (up to 8%), back pain (3%), and arthritis (3%). Musculoskeletal effects that were reported more frequently in patients receiving immediate-release ropinirole than placebo during clinical trials for restless legs syndrome (RLS) included arthralgia (4%), muscle cramps (3%), and extremity pain (3%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      muscle cramps
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      back pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    restless legs syndrome (RLS) augmentation, restless legs syndrome (RLS) rebound
    General Information
    Restless legs syndrome (RLS) augmentation occurs when dopamine agonists, such as ropinirole, cause a worsening of RLS symptom severity above and beyond the level at the time the medication was started or may involve an earlier time of symptom onset each day compared to pre-treatment levels. Augmentation symptoms may include the earlier onset of symptoms in the evening or afternoon, increase in symptoms, or spread of symptoms to involve other extremities. Restless legs syndrome (RLS) rebound is an exacerbation of RLS symptoms and is considered to be an end-of-dose effect related to the half-life of the drug. Rebound has been observed during discontinuation of the dopaminergic agent, and in the early morning hours during ongoing treatment (also known as early-morning rebound). If augmentation or early-morning rebound occurs, the use of ropinirole should be re-assessed, and a dosage adjustment or discontinuation of treatment should be considered. When discontinuing ropinirole, a gradual taper is recommended to minimize rebound effects.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      restless legs syndrome (RLS) augmentation
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      restless legs syndrome (RLS) rebound
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    cough, dyspnea, influenza, nasal congestion, pharyngitis, retroperitoneal fibrosis, rhinitis, sinusitis
    General Information
    The most commonly observed infections or respiratory adverse reactions reported in patients with early Parkinson's disease receiving monotherapy with immediate-release ropinirole at rates higher than placebo included viral infection (11%), bronchitis (3%), dyspnea (3%), pharyngitis (6%), rhinitis (4%), sinusitis (4%), and urinary tract infection (5%). In patients with advanced Parkinson's disease receiving ropinirole plus L-dopa, the following infections or respiratory system effects were reported more frequently in patients receiving immediate-release or extended-release ropinirole than placebo: upper respiratory tract infection (9%), naso-pharyngitis (up to 8%), urinary tract infection (6%), and dyspnea (3%). In clinical trials of patients with restless legs syndrome (RLS), the following effects occurred in more immediate-release ropinirole-treated patients than placebo-treated patients: naso-pharyngitis (9%), influenza (3%), cough (3%), and nasal congestion (2%). Cases of retroperitoneal fibrosis, pulmonary infiltrates, pleural effusion, pleural thickening, pericarditis, and cardiac valvulopathy have been reported in some patients treated with ergot-derived dopaminergic agents. Although these adverse reactions are believed to be related to the ergoline structure of these compounds, it is not known if other non-ergot derived dopamine agonists (e.g., ropinirole) can cause them. Cases of possible fibrotic complications, including pleural effusion, pleural fibrosis, interstitial lung disease, and cardiac valvulopathy have been reported in the development program and postmarketing experience for ropinirole. While the evidence is not sufficient to establish a causal relationship between ropinirole and these fibrotic complications, a contribution of ropinirole cannot be excluded.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pharyngitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      rhinitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      sinusitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      influenza
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nasal congestion
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      retroperitoneal fibrosis
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    diplopia, visual impairment, xerophthalmia
    General Information
    Adverse reactions affecting vision have been reported in patients receiving ropinirole alone and in combination with L-dopa. The most commonly observed adverse reactions affecting vision in patients with early Parkinson's disease receiving monotherapy with immediate-release ropinirole at rates greater than with placebo were unspecified eye abnormality (3%), visual impairment (6%), and xerophthalmia (2%). Diplopia (2%) was the most common adverse reaction affecting the ocular system in ropinirole plus L-dopa treated patients with advanced Parkinson's disease. Animal data have shown that ropinirole binds to melanin-containing tissues (i.e., eyes, skin); these data indicate long-term retention of ropinirole with an ocular half-life of 20 days. It is not known if ropinirole accumulates in these tissues over time. In a 2-year safety study of retinal deterioration and vision, 234 patients with Parkinson's disease were randomized to pramipexole (n = 115; mean dose 3 mg/day PO) or ropinirole (n = 119; mean dose 9.5 mg/day PO). Clinical abnormalities that were considered meaningful developed in 29/196 patients who had been treated for 2 years (19 patients in each treatment arm had received treatment for less than 2 years). There was no statistically significant difference in retinal deterioration between the treatment arms; however, the study was only capable of detecting a very large difference between treatments. Because the study did not include a placebo group, a causal relationship to either drug cannot be established. It is unknown whether the findings reported in patients treated with either drug are greater than the background rate in an aging population.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      diplopia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      visual impairment
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerophthalmia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anemia
    General Information
    During clinical trials in patients with advanced Parkinson's disease, anemia (2%) was reported more frequently in ropinirole immediate-release plus L-dopa treated patients than with placebo-treated patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    neuroleptic malignant syndrome-like symptoms, withdrawal
    General Information
    Avoid abrupt discontinuation or rapid dose reduction of immediate-release and extended-release ropinirole if possible. If discontinuation of ropinirole becomes necessary in patients with Parkinson disease, the manufacturer of the immediate-release formulation recommends a gradual reduction over a 7-day period beginning with a frequency reduction from 3-times per day to twice per day for 4 days followed by once daily administration for the remaining 3 days. The manufacturer of the extended-release formulation recommends an unspecified taper over 7 days. A withdrawal or discontinuation syndrome has been associated with the abrupt stoppage of dopamine agonist therapy, such as ropinirole, in patients with Parkinson disease. Discontinuation symptoms of apathy, anxiety, depression, fatigue, insomnia, sweating, and pain have been reported in patients with Parkinson disease during dosage tapering or treatment discontinuation; these symptoms generally do not respond to treatment with levodopa. Closely monitor these patients during and after treatment discontinuation. Re-administration at the lowest effective ropinirole dose may be considered if severe withdrawal symptoms develop. Rarely, neuroleptic malignant syndrome-like symptoms (e.g., hyperpyrexia, confusion, muscular rigidity, altered consciousness, autonomic instability), with no other obvious etiology, have been reported in association with rapid dose reductions of, withdrawal from, or changes in dopaminergic therapy. If discontinuation of ropinirole becomes necessary in patients with restless leg syndrome, a gradual reduction in dose is recommended to reduce the risk of rebound symptoms.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      neuroleptic malignant syndrome-like symptoms
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      withdrawal
      Severity
      Moderate

Description
  Text
  Ropinirole is an oral non-ergoline dopamine agonist. The immediate-release formulation is indicated for the treatment of Parkinson's disease and the treatment of moderate to severe restless legs syndrome (RLS) in adults, while the extended-release formulation is indicated only for the treatment of the signs and symptoms of idiopathic Parkinson's disease in adults. Clinical practice guidelines suggest that non-ergot dopamine agonists (including ropinirole) may be used as first-line pharmacologic options for early Parkinson's disease in younger patients (less than 60 years old) who are at high risk for the development of levodopa-induced dyskinesias. Dopamine receptor agonists have historically been widely used in the treatment of RLS, presumably because of their longer half-lives and good tolerability compared with levodopa. However, RLS guidelines from the American Academy of Sleep Medicine (AASM) suggest against the standard use of ropinirole due to the risk of RLS augmentation with long-term use. Treatment may be considered selectively when short-term RLS symptom control is prioritized over the potential long-term risks, with appropriate counseling and monitoring. Somnolence and dizziness are common side effects associated with ropinirole, and orthostatic hypotension has been reported during initiation and dose titration. Serious adverse effects of ropinirole and other dopamine agonists include hallucinations and psychotic-like behavior, impulse control symptoms, and sleep attacks (falling asleep during activities of daily living). Older patients have an increased risk for cognitive and behavioral adverse effects from dopamine agonists; thus, levodopa therapy generally has a more favorable benefit to risk ratio in this patient population.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Ropinirole is an agonist at both dopamine D2-receptors and D3-receptors, with greater affinity for D3 than D2. While the exact mechanism of action of ropinirole in the treatment of Parkinson's disease is unknown, it is believed to be due to stimulation of the D2-receptors in the caudate-putamen in the brain. Ropinirole is also an agonist at peripheral dopamine D2-receptors, leading to a blunted noradrenergic response to standing and subsequent orthostatic hypotension.The precise mechanism of action of ropinirole as a treatment for restless legs syndrome (RLS) is unknown; however, neuropharmacological evidence suggests primary dopaminergic system involvement. Positron emission tomographic (PET) studies suggest that a mild striatal presynaptic dopaminergic dysfunction may be involved in the pathogenesis of RLS.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Following oral administration, immediate-release ropinirole is rapidly absorbed with peak plasma concentrations occurring in approximately 1 to 2 hours. The median time-to-peak of extended-release ropinirole is 6 to 10 hours. Oral bioavailability is 55%. Food does not affect the extent of absorption, however, Tmax of the immediate-release and extended-release formulations is increased by 2.5 hours and 3 hours, respectively, when taken with a high-fat meal. Cmax is decreased by approximately 25% for immediate-release tablets when taken with a high fat meal. In contrast, Cmax increased by approximately 44% and AUC increased by 20% when the extended-release formulation was given with a high fat meal. The manufacturer states that ropinirole may be taken with or without food, and that taking the extended-release formulation with food may reduce the incidence of nausea. Steady-state concentrations of immediate-release and extended-release ropinirole are expected to be achieved within 2 days and 4 days of dosing, respectively.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    The pharmacokinetics of ropinirole have not been studied in patients with hepatic impairment. Because ropinirole is extensively metabolized by the liver, these patients may have higher plasma levels and lower clearance of ropinirole than patients with normal hepatic function.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Based on population pharmacokinetic analysis, no difference was observed in the pharmacokinetics of ropinirole in subjects with moderate renal impairment (CrCl of 30 to 50 mL/minute) compared with an age-matched population with creatinine clearance greater than 50 mL/minute. Therefore, no dosage adjustment is necessary in patients with moderate renal impairment. A trial of immediate-release ropinirole in subjects with end-stage renal disease on hemodialysis has shown that clearance of ropinirole was reduced by approximately 30%; the recommended maximum dose should be reduced in these patients. The use of ropinirole in subjects with severe renal impairment (CrCl less than 30 mL/minute) who are not receiving regular dialysis has not been studied.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    In patients more than 65 years of age, the oral clearance of ropinirole is reduced by 15% compared with younger patients. Dosage adjustment is not necessary in this population, as the dose of ropinirole is to be individually titrated to clinical response.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    The clearance of ropinirole was similar in both males and females.
    Name
    Other
    Description
    Smoking
Cigarette smoking is expected to increase the clearance of ropinirole since the CYP1A2 isozyme is known to be induced by smoking. In a trial in patients with restless leg syndrome (RLS), smokers (n = 7) had an approximately 30% lower Cmax and a 38% lower AUC than did nonsmokers (n = 11) when those parameters were normalized for dose.
  Text
  Ropinirole is administered orally as an immediate-release or extended-release tablet. Pharmacokinetics are similar for patients with Parkinson's disease or restless legs syndrome, and increases in systemic exposure appear to be dose-proportional. Ropinirole is widely distributed throughout the body and protein binding is approximately 40%. The major metabolic pathways are N-despropylation and hydroxylation to form the inactive N-despropyl metabolite and hydroxy metabolites. The N-despropyl metabolite is converted to carbamyl glucuronide, carboxylic acid, and N-despropyl hydroxy metabolites. The hydroxy metabolite of ropinirole is rapidly glucuronidated. In vitro studies indicate that CYP1A2 is the major isoenzyme involved in the metabolism of ropinirole. Less than 10% of the administered drug is excreted unchanged in the urine; N-despropyl ropinirole is the predominant metabolite found in urine (40%), followed by a carboxylic acid metabolite (10%), and a glucuronide of the hydroxy metabolite (10%). The elimination half-life of ropinirole is roughly 6 hours.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP1A2
Since ropinirole is primarily metabolized by CYP1A2, there is the potential for inducers or inhibitors of CYP1A2 to alter the clearance of ropinirole. Therefore, if a potent inducer or inhibitor of CYP1A2 is stopped or started during treatment with ropinirole, dosage adjustment of ropinirole may be required.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Immediate-release tablets:
May administer with or without food.
 
Extended-release tablets:
Administer once daily, with or without food. Taking with food may reduce the occurrence of nausea.
Swallow whole; do not chew, crush or divide.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    24 mg/day PO when used for Parkinson disease; 4 mg/day PO for restless legs syndrome.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    24 mg/day PO when used for Parkinson disease; 4 mg/day PO for restless legs syndrome.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific dose adjustment recommendations are not available due to lack of studies in patients with hepatic impairment. Because ropinirole is extensively metabolized by the liver, these patients may have higher plasma levels and lower clearance of ropinirole than patients with normal hepatic function. Titrate initial dose with caution if ropinirole immediate-release tablets are prescribed. No information is available for extended-release tablets.
  Renal Impairment
  CrCl 30 to 50 mL/min, or above: No dose adjustment is needed.
CrCl less than 30 mL/min: Use in patients with severe renal impairment who are not receiving regular dialysis has not been studied.
 
Intermittent hemodialysis
For patients with end-stage renal disease (CrCl less than 15 mL/min) receiving regular hemodialysis sessions, the recommended initial dose for Parkinson's disease for the immediate-release tablets is 0.25 mg PO three times a day. Further dose escalations should be based on tolerability and need for efficacy. A reduced maximum dose is recommended for the immediate-release tablets. Max: 18 mg/day PO. The recommended initial dose of ropinirole for Restless-Leg Syndrome patients with end-stage renal disease on hemodialysis is 0.25 mg PO once daily. Max: 3 mg/day PO in patients receiving regular dialysis. Information regarding dose adjustment for the extended-release product is not available.
