=== Cetirizine/Pseudoephedrine (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 2680)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: NOTE:

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 10 mg/day PO cetirizine; 240 mg/day PO pseudoephedrine.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): anxiety, dizziness, drowsiness, fatigue, hallucinations, insomnia, psychosis, seizures, elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatitis, hyperbilirubinemia, angina, arrhythmia exacerbation, hypertension, myocardial infarction, palpitations, premature ventricular contractions (pvcs), sinus tachycardia, stroke, supraventricular tachycardia (svt), colitis, dysuria, contact dermatitis, pruritus, rash

In an Overdose: In January 2007, the CDC warned caregivers and healthcare providers of the risk for serious injury or fatal overdose from the administration of cough and cold products to children and infants less than 2 years of age. While some combination cough/cold products containing these ingredients are available by prescription only and are not necessarily under scrutiny by the FDA, clinicians should thoroughly assess each individual's use of similar...

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: NOTE: This monograph discusses the contraindications and precautions of cetirizine and pseudoephedrine combination products for the relief of nasal congestion and allergic rhinitis.

Brand Names
  - All Day Allergy-D
  - Allergy Relief Nasal Decongestant 12 Hour
  - Zyrtec-D
  - Zyrtec-D Allergy + Congestion
  - Zyrtec-D Allergy + Sinus

Dosage Forms
  - 12 hour allergy-D 5mg-120mg Extended-Release Tablet
  - All Day Allergy-D 12 Hour 5mg-120mg Extended-Release Tablet
  - Allergy Relief Nasal Decongestant 12 Hour 5mg-120mg Extended-Release Tablet
  - Cetirizine Hydrochloride 5mg, Pseudoephedrine Hydrochloride 120mg Oral tablet, extended release 12 hour
  - CVS Allergy Relief-D 12 Hour 5mg-120mg Extended-Release Tablet
  - Equate Allergy Relief D 12 Hour 5mg-120mg Extended-Release Tablet
  - Equate Allergy Relief Nasal Decongestant Tablets
  - Foster & Thrive All Day Allergy-D 12 Hour 5mg-120mg Extended-Release Tablet
  - GNP All Day Allergy-D 12 Hour 5mg-120mg Extended-Release Tablet
  - GoodSense All Day Allergy-D 12 Hour 5mg-120mg Extended-Release Tablet
  - HEB All Day Allergy Relief-D 5-120mg ER Tablet
  - Kirkland ALLER-TEC D 12 Hour 5mg-120mg Extended-Release Tablet
  - Kroger All Day Allergy-D 12 Hour 5mg-120mg Extended-Release Tablet
  - Leader Allergy D-12 Hour 5mg-120mg Extended-Release Tablet
  - Leader Allergy Relief D 12 Hour 5mg-120mg Extended-Release Tablet
  - Premier Value Allergy & Congestion 12 Hour 5mg-120mg Extended-Release Tablet
  - Publix Allergy Relief D 5mg-120mg Extended-Release Tablet
  - RITE AID Allergy & Congestion Relief-D 12 Hour 5mg-120mg Extended-Release Tablet
  - RITE AID Cetiri-D 12 Hour 5mg-120mg Extended-Release Tablet
  - Top Care All Day Allergy-D 12 Hour 5mg-120mg Extended-Release Tablet
  - TopCare All Day Allergy-D 12 Hour 5mg-120mg Extended-Release Tablet
  - Wal-Zyr D 12 Hour Allergy & Congestion Extended-Release Tablet
  - Walgreens Allergy Relief D12 5mg-120mg Extended-Release Tablet
  - Zyrtec-D Allergy + Congestion 12 Hour 5mg-120mg Extended-Release Tablet
  - Zyrtec-D Allergy + Sinus 12 Hour 5mg-120mg Extended-Release Tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage (extended-release tablets containing cetirizine 5 mg; pseudoephedrine 120 mg; e.g., Zyrtec-D)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        1 tablet PO up to twice a day as needed, approximately 12 hours apart. Do not exceed 2 tablets in 24 hours.
        Heading
        Older Adults
        Dosage Description
        1 tablet PO up to twice a day as needed, approximately 12 hours apart. Do not exceed 2 tablets in 24 hours. Use the lowest effective dose. Cetirizine 5 mg/day PO is recommended for elderly patients 77 years and older by giving 1 tablet PO once daily. Elderly adults choosing to self-medicate via non-prescription products should consult a doctor before use.
        Heading
        Children and Adolescents 12 years and older
        Dosage Description
        1 tablet PO up to twice a day as needed, approximately 12 hours apart. Do not exceed 2 tablets in 24 hours.
    Heading
    For the treatment of seasonal or perennial allergic rhinitis and accompanying nasal congestion and symptoms (e.g., sneezing; rhinorrhea; itchy, watery eyes; itchy throat or nose)

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  NOTE: This monograph discusses the contraindications and precautions of cetirizine and pseudoephedrine combination products for the relief of nasal congestion and allergic rhinitis. Clinicians may wish to consult the individual cetirizine or pseudoephedrine drug monographs for more specific information.
 
Cetirizine is contraindicated for use in patients with a known hypersensitivity to the drug, to any of the formulation components or who have a known hydroxyzine hypersensitivity. Cetirizine is a known human metabolite of hydroxyzine. Additionally, pseudoephedrine is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity or idiosyncratic reaction to it or other adrenergic agents. Examples of idiosyncratic reactions to pseudoephedrine include insomnia, dizziness, weakness, tremor or cardiac arrhythmia.
 
Cetirizine; pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients with renal disease, renal failure, renal impairment, undergoing dialysis or with hepatic disease; dosage adjustments are required in these groups (see Dosage). Elderly patients are at a particular risk for renal or hepatic disease. While advanced age alone does not necessitate dose adjustment, lower initial doses and renal monitoring may be particularly prudent in this population.
 
Well-controlled hypertensive adult patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses (240 mg/day PO) generally do not appear at risk for significant elevations in blood pressure ; however, small increases in blood pressure and heart rate may occur. Although considered safe in the general population of controlled hypertensives, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in individual patients receiving pseudoephedrine. When pseudoephedrine is used at higher than recommended doses, when combined with a MAOI therapy (see Drug Interactions), or when used in the setting of substance abuse or overdosage, it may result in hypertension or hypertensive crisis. Since pseudoephedrine is a vasoconstrictor and may increase heart rate and blood pressure via sympathomimetic effects, do not use in patients with uncontrolled or severe hypertension or severe coronary artery disease (including acute myocardial infarction, angina, or history of myocardial infarction). Pseudoephedrine use should be avoided in patients with acute cardiac arrhythmias (tachycardias). Considerable caution should be used in patients with controlled or mild hypertension, heart failure, cardiomyopathy, or other cardiac disease.
 
Pseudoephedrine should be used with caution in patients with hyperthyroidism, diabetes mellitus, stenosing peptic ulcer disease, GI obstruction (pyloroduodenal obstruction) and increased intraocular pressure because sympathomimetics can exacerbate these conditions. Pseudoephedrine is contraindicated in closed-angle glaucoma and urinary retention.
 
Patients should assess the effects of cetirizine; pseudoephedrine prior to driving or operating machinery or performing other activities that require mental alertness or are considered hazardous. Because the effects of ethanol or other CNS depressants may be additive with antihistamines, ethanol intoxication should be avoided.
 
The safety and efficacy of cetirizine; pseudoephedrine has not been established in children < 12 years of age or infants. Zyrtec-D contains 120 mg of extended-release pseudoephedrine per tablet which exceeds the recommended dose for children < 12 years of age. The adverse effects of sympathomimetics such as pseudoephedrine can be severe, especially in infants and toddlers. CNS stimulation, increased blood pressure and tachycardia may occur. In January 2007, the CDC warned caregivers and healthcare providers of the risk for serious injury or fatal overdose from the administration of cough and cold products to children and infants less than 2 years of age. This warning followed an investigation of the deaths of three (3) infants less than 6 months of age that were attributed to the inadvertent inappropriate use of these products. The symptoms preceding these deaths have not been clearly defined, and there is a lack of conclusive data describing the exact cause of death. The report estimated that 1519 children less than 2 years of age were treated in emergency departments during 2004—2005 for adverse events related to cough and cold medications. In October 2007, the FDA Nonprescription Drug Advisory Committee and the Pediatric Advisory Committee recommended that nonprescription cough and cold products containing pseudoephedrine, dextromethorphan, chlorpheniramine, diphenhydramine, brompheniramine, phenylephrine, clemastine, or guaifenesin not be used in children less than 6 years of age. In January 2008, the FDA issued a Public Health Advisory recommending that OTC cough and cold products not be used in infants and children less than 2 years. An official ruling regarding the use of these products in children greater than 2 years has not yet been announced. The FDA recommends that if parents and caregivers use cough and cold products in children greater than 2 years, labels should be read carefully, caution should be used when administering multiple products, and only measuring devices specifically designed for use with medications should be used. While some combination cough/cold products containing these ingredients are available by prescription only and are not necessarily under scrutiny by the FDA, clinicians should thoroughly assess each patient's use of similar products, both prescription and nonprescription, to avoid duplication of therapy and the potential for inadvertent overdose.
 
The combination of cetirizine; pseudoephedrine is classified in FDA pregnancy risk category C. Animal studies with the combination product have demonstrated teratogenic effects, but there are no adequate and well controlled studies in pregnant women. Fetal skeletal malformations in rats have been noted at doses 5 times the maximum recommended dose; no malformations were noted at doses equal to the maximum recommended daily dose. Rabbit studies have not revealed malformations. Cetirizine; pseudoephedrine should be used in pregnancy only when the potential benefit clearly outweighs the risk to the fetus.
 
Cetirizine and pseudoephedrine are both excreted into human milk. Because there is a lack of information on safety during lactation, the manufacturer recommends against the use of cetirizine during breast-feeding. While pseudoephedrine is considered safe for the breast-feeding infant by the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP), no recommendations are available from AAP for cetirizine. Rat studies utilizing doses 5 times the maximum recommended daily dose of cetirizine; pseudoephedrine have noted reduced viability and weight gain of offspring.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Cetirizine is contraindicated for use in patients with a levocetirizine or hyroxyzine hypersensitivity. Cetirizine is a known human metabolite of hydroxyzine, and levocetirizine is an enantiomer of cetirizine.
    Headline
    cardiac disease, hypertension
    General Information
    Sympathomimetics such as pseudoephedrine may raise heart rate and/or blood pressure in susceptible individuals. Use cetirizine; pseudoephedrine with caution in individuals with cardiac disease or hypertension. People with heart disease or high blood pressure should check with their care team before nonprescription (OTC) use.
    Headline
    glaucoma
    General Information
    Cetirizine; pseudoephedrine should be used with caution in people with glaucoma.
    Headline
    diabetes mellitus, thyroid disease
    General Information
    Use cetirizine; pseudoephedrine with caution in individuals with diabetes mellitus or thyroid disease. Sympathomimetic agents such as pseudoephedrine may aggravate these conditions.
    Headline
    prostatic hypertrophy
    General Information
    Use cetirizine; pseudoephedrine with caution in people with difficulty in urination due to prostatic hypertrophy, as sympathomimetic agents such as pseudoephedrine may aggravate urinary retention.
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    Before cetirizine; pseudoephedrine use, people with renal impairment or failure should consult with their health care provider as cetirizine and/or pseudoephedrine dosage reduction may be recommended. Older adults may be more likely to have renal impairment, so it is recommended that they also check with their care provider before use.  Pseudoephedrine should be used with caution in people with severe renal impairment (CrCl less than 30 mL/minute) and dosage reduction has been suggested for these individuals. Due to decreased elimination and potential pseudoephedrine drug accumulation, patients with renal failure may be at increased risk for drug-related toxicity. Many experts recommend against pseudoephedrine use in severe acute or chronic kidney disease (CKD) or renal failure.
    Headline
    hepatic failure
    General Information
    Before cetirizine; pseudoephedrine use, people with hepatic failure or impairment should consult with their health care provider as dosage reduction may be recommended.
    Headline
    activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery
    General Information
    Drowsiness has been reported in some systemic cetirizine recipients; use caution when driving or operating machinery or with other activities requiring coordination and concentration until the effects of the drug are known. Concurrent use of cetirizine; pseudoephedrine with alcohol or other CNS depressants may cause additional reductions in alertness and additional impairment of CNS performance.
    Headline
    children, infants, neonates
    General Information
    Due to the risk for serious adverse reactions, the FDA recommends against administration of over the counter (OTC) cough and cold products to neonates, infants and children younger than 2 years of age. When administering OTC medications to older pediatric patients, they advise caregivers to read product labels carefully, use caution when administering multiple products to avoid duplication of ingredients, and use only measuring devices specifically designed for use with medications. Care teams should thoroughly assess the use of similar products, both prescription and nonprescription, to avoid duplication of therapy and the potential for inadvertent overdose.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Cetirizine; pseudoephedrine combination products are not recommended for use during pregnancy. Pseudoephedrine may reduce blood flow to the placenta and the fetus, and there is some evidence use may be associated with birth defects if used during early pregnancy. Evidence from case-control studies in human pregnancy indicate there may be an increased risk of gastroschisis, small intestinal atresia, and hemifacial microsomia in babies exposed in utero to pseudoephedrine, particularly in the first trimester. Non-pharmacologic methods (e.g., fluids, rest) are recommended to be tried first for symptomatic relief of rhinitis, colds or allergies during pregnancy. Pregnant patients should see their health care professional for a proper diagnosis and for treatment recommendations. Loratadine and cetirizine monotherapy are acceptable alternatives based on their excellent safety data and recommendation in multiple guidelines for use during pregnancy.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    The manufacturer recommends against the use of cetirizine; pseudoephedrine combination products during breast-feeding; use with caution and only if other alternatives are not effective. Pseudoephedrine is excreted in breast milk and has been reported to decrease milk production and there are reports of irritability in breastfed infants. Milk production over a 24-hour period was reduced by an average of 24% compared to placebo after a single 60 mg dose of pseudoephedrine based on concentrations in breast milk and assuming a maternal dose of 240 mg/day of pseudoephedrine, it was estimated that an infant would receive 4.3% of the maternal weight-adjusted dose. Consider treatment alternatives to cetirizine; pseudoephedrine, such as the use of cetirizine alone. Cetirizine is found in breast milk in low concentrations and is not expected to produce adverse effects in the breastfed infant. Guidelines recommend loratadine or cetirizine at the lowest dose as preferred antihistamines because they are safer with only low levels found in breast milk.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Cetirizine; pseudoephedrine combination products are not recommended for use during pregnancy. Pseudoephedrine may reduce blood flow to the placenta and the fetus, and there is some evidence use may be associated with birth defects if used during early pregnancy. Evidence from case-control studies in human pregnancy indicate there may be an increased risk of gastroschisis, small intestinal atresia, and hemifacial microsomia in babies exposed in utero to pseudoephedrine, particularly in the first trimester. Non-pharmacologic methods (e.g., fluids, rest) are recommended to be tried first for symptomatic relief of rhinitis, colds or allergies during pregnancy. Pregnant patients should see their health care professional for a proper diagnosis and for treatment recommendations. Loratadine and cetirizine monotherapy are acceptable alternatives based on their excellent safety data and recommendation in multiple guidelines for use during pregnancy.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    The manufacturer recommends against the use of cetirizine; pseudoephedrine combination products during breast-feeding; use with caution and only if other alternatives are not effective. Pseudoephedrine is excreted in breast milk and has been reported to decrease milk production and there are reports of irritability in breastfed infants. Milk production over a 24-hour period was reduced by an average of 24% compared to placebo after a single 60 mg dose of pseudoephedrine based on concentrations in breast milk and assuming a maternal dose of 240 mg/day of pseudoephedrine, it was estimated that an infant would receive 4.3% of the maternal weight-adjusted dose. Consider treatment alternatives to cetirizine; pseudoephedrine, such as the use of cetirizine alone. Cetirizine is found in breast milk in low concentrations and is not expected to produce adverse effects in the breastfed infant. Guidelines recommend loratadine or cetirizine at the lowest dose as preferred antihistamines because they are safer with only low levels found in breast milk.

Interactions
Acarbose: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Acebutolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and cetirizine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and cetirizine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Acetaminophen; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Acetaminophen; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and cetirizine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and cetirizine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Acetaminophen; Pamabrom; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Acetaminophen; Phenylephrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
acetaZOLAMIDE: (Moderate) Acetazolamide and methazolamide can decrease excretion and enhance the effects of pseudoephedrine. Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors increase the alkalinity of the urine, thereby increasing the amount of nonionized pseudoephedrine available for renal tubular reabsorption. Use caution if acetazolamide or methazolamide is coadministered; monitor for excessive pseudoephedrine-related adverse effects.
Aclidinium; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant pseudoephedrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Albuterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant albuterol and pseudoephedrine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Albuterol; Budesonide: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant albuterol and pseudoephedrine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
ALFentanil: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and cetirizine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Alogliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Alogliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine is administered to patients taking metformin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Alogliptin; Pioglitazone: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking thiazolidinediones. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Alpha-blockers: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Alpha-glucosidase Inhibitors: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
ALPRAZolam: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with benzodiazepines should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Aluminum Hydroxide: (Minor) It appears that antacids containing aluminum hydroxide may increase pseudoephedrine plasma concentrations. This interaction can be avoided by separating the administration of pseudoephedrine and antacids by 1 to 2 hours. If aluminum-based antacids are used on a regular basis, an alternative to pseudoephedrine may be considered.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Carbonate: (Minor) It appears that antacids containing aluminum hydroxide may increase pseudoephedrine plasma concentrations. This interaction can be avoided by separating the administration of pseudoephedrine and antacids by 1 to 2 hours. If aluminum-based antacids are used on a regular basis, an alternative to pseudoephedrine may be considered.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Minor) It appears that antacids containing aluminum hydroxide may increase pseudoephedrine plasma concentrations. This interaction can be avoided by separating the administration of pseudoephedrine and antacids by 1 to 2 hours. If aluminum-based antacids are used on a regular basis, an alternative to pseudoephedrine may be considered.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Minor) It appears that antacids containing aluminum hydroxide may increase pseudoephedrine plasma concentrations. This interaction can be avoided by separating the administration of pseudoephedrine and antacids by 1 to 2 hours. If aluminum-based antacids are used on a regular basis, an alternative to pseudoephedrine may be considered.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Trisilicate: (Minor) It appears that antacids containing aluminum hydroxide may increase pseudoephedrine plasma concentrations. This interaction can be avoided by separating the administration of pseudoephedrine and antacids by 1 to 2 hours. If aluminum-based antacids are used on a regular basis, an alternative to pseudoephedrine may be considered.
aMILoride: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Amitriptyline: (Major) Avoid use of pseudoephedrine and tricyclic antidepressants as tricyclic antidepressants may potentiate the effects of catecholamines. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and tricyclic antidepressants. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
amLODIPine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Amobarbital: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with barbiturates should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Amoxapine: (Major) Concomitant use of amoxapine with sympathomimetics should be avoided whenever possible; use with caution when concurrent use cannot be avoided. One drug information reference suggests that cyclic antidepressants potentiate the pharmacologic effects of direct-acting sympathomimetics, but decrease the pressor response to indirect-acting sympathomimetics, however, the data are not consistent. (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with heterocyclic antidepressants should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of anticholinergic and CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive anticholinergic effects, sedation, and somnolence.
Angiotensin II receptor antagonists: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Angiotensin II: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Apomorphine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with apomorphine should generally be avoided because of the possibility of additive sedative effects. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Arformoterol: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when arformoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of atypical antipsychotics and cetirizine due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Asenapine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of atypical antipsychotics and cetirizine due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor. (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with barbiturates should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of cetirizine and skeletal muscle relaxants due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and cetirizine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of cetirizine and skeletal muscle relaxants due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and cetirizine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Atenolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Atomoxetine: (Moderate) Use atomoxetine with caution and monitor blood pressure in patients receiving concomitant pseudoephedrine due to potential effects on blood pressure.
Atropine: (Major) Atropine blocks the vagal reflex bradycardia caused by pseudoephedrine, and increases its pressor effect. Patients need to be asked whether they have taken pseudoephedrine before receiving atropine. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant cetirizine and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Major) Atropine blocks the vagal reflex bradycardia caused by pseudoephedrine, and increases its pressor effect. Patients need to be asked whether they have taken pseudoephedrine before receiving atropine. (Moderate) Concurrent administration of diphenoxylate/difenoxin with cetirizine can potentiate the CNS-depressant effects of diphenoxylate/difenoxin. Use caution during coadministration. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant cetirizine and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
atypical antipsychotic: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of atypical antipsychotics and cetirizine due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Azilsartan: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Baclofen: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of cetirizine and skeletal muscle relaxants due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Barbiturates: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with barbiturates should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Belladonna; Opium: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and cetirizine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant cetirizine and belladonna use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Benazepril: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and cetirizine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Benzodiazepines: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with benzodiazepines should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant cetirizine and hyoscyamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Benztropine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant cetirizine and benztropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Beta-blockers: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Betaxolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Bethanechol: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Bexagliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Bisoprolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Bretylium: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate closely when sympathomimetics are administered with bretylium. The pressor and arrhythmogenic effects of catecholamines are enhanced by bretylium.
Brexpiprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of atypical antipsychotics and cetirizine due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Bromocriptine: (Moderate) Limit the concomitant use of bromocriptine and a sympathomimetic to 10 days or less. Both medications may increase the risk for blood pressure elevations and tachycardia.
Brompheniramine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant pseudoephedrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant pseudoephedrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects. (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant cetirizine and glycopyrrolate use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Bumetanide: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Buprenorphine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of buprenorphine and cetirizine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of buprenorphine and cetirizine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
buPROPion: (Moderate) Use extreme caution when coadministering bupropion with other drugs that lower the seizure threshold, such as pseudoephedrine. Use low initial doses of bupropion and increase the dose gradually.
buPROPion; Naltrexone: (Moderate) Use extreme caution when coadministering bupropion with other drugs that lower the seizure threshold, such as pseudoephedrine. Use low initial doses of bupropion and increase the dose gradually.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with barbiturates should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor. (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with barbiturates should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and cetirizine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor. (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with barbiturates should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and cetirizine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor. (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with barbiturates should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Butorphanol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with butorphanol should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Caffeine; Sodium Benzoate: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Calcium Carbonate: (Minor) It appears that antacids increase pseudoephedrine plasma concentrations. This interaction can be avoided by separating the administration of pseudoephedrine and antacids by 1 to 2 hours. If antacids are used on a regular basis, an alternative to pseudoephedrine may be considered.
Calcium Carbonate; Famotidine; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Minor) It appears that antacids increase pseudoephedrine plasma concentrations. This interaction can be avoided by separating the administration of pseudoephedrine and antacids by 1 to 2 hours. If antacids are used on a regular basis, an alternative to pseudoephedrine may be considered.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Minor) It appears that antacids increase pseudoephedrine plasma concentrations. This interaction can be avoided by separating the administration of pseudoephedrine and antacids by 1 to 2 hours. If antacids are used on a regular basis, an alternative to pseudoephedrine may be considered.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Minor) It appears that antacids increase pseudoephedrine plasma concentrations. This interaction can be avoided by separating the administration of pseudoephedrine and antacids by 1 to 2 hours. If antacids are used on a regular basis, an alternative to pseudoephedrine may be considered.
Calcium Carbonate; Simethicone: (Minor) It appears that antacids increase pseudoephedrine plasma concentrations. This interaction can be avoided by separating the administration of pseudoephedrine and antacids by 1 to 2 hours. If antacids are used on a regular basis, an alternative to pseudoephedrine may be considered.
Calcium, Magnesium, Potassium, Sodium Oxybates: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with sodium oxybate should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Calcium; Vitamin D: (Minor) It appears that antacids increase pseudoephedrine plasma concentrations. This interaction can be avoided by separating the administration of pseudoephedrine and antacids by 1 to 2 hours. If antacids are used on a regular basis, an alternative to pseudoephedrine may be considered.
Calcium-channel blockers: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Canagliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Canagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine is administered to patients taking metformin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Candesartan: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Cannabidiol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine with cannabidiol should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Capsaicin; Metaxalone: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of cetirizine and skeletal muscle relaxants due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Captopril: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Carbidopa; Levodopa; Entacapone: (Moderate) Caution is recommended during concurrent use of cetirizine or levocetirizine with COMT inhibitors because of the possibility for additive sedative effects. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Carbinoxamine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Cariprazine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of atypical antipsychotics and cetirizine due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Carisoprodol: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of cetirizine and skeletal muscle relaxants due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Carteolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and cetirizine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Cenobamate: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of cenobamate and cetirizine. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Chlophedianol; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Chlorcyclizine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
chlordiazePOXIDE: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with benzodiazepines should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Major) Avoid use of pseudoephedrine and tricyclic antidepressants as tricyclic antidepressants may potentiate the effects of catecholamines. (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with benzodiazepines should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and tricyclic antidepressants. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with benzodiazepines should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Chlorothiazide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and cetirizine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and cetirizine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Chlorzoxazone: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of cetirizine and skeletal muscle relaxants due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Clemastine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Clevidipine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
clomiPRAMINE: (Major) Avoid use of pseudoephedrine and tricyclic antidepressants as tricyclic antidepressants may potentiate the effects of catecholamines. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and tricyclic antidepressants. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
clonazePAM: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with benzodiazepines should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
cloNIDine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of cetirizine and clonidine due to the risk for additive CNS depression. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics, such as pseudoephedrine, can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of clonidine when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored for loss of blood pressure control.
Clorazepate: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with benzodiazepines should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of atypical antipsychotics and cetirizine due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Cocaine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of additional vasoconstrictor agents with cocaine. If unavoidable, prolonged vital sign and ECG monitoring may be required. Myocardial ischemia, myocardial infarction, and ventricular arrhythmias have been reported after concomitant administration of topical intranasal cocaine and vasoconstrictor agents during nasal and sinus surgery. The risk for nervousness, irritability, convulsions, and other cardiac arrhythmias may increase during coadministration.
Codeine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and cetirizine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and cetirizine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and cetirizine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and cetirizine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics. (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and cetirizine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and cetirizine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
COMT inhibitors: (Moderate) Caution is recommended during concurrent use of cetirizine or levocetirizine with COMT inhibitors because of the possibility for additive sedative effects. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Cyclobenzaprine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of cetirizine and skeletal muscle relaxants due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Cyproheptadine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Dantrolene: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of cetirizine and skeletal muscle relaxants due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Dapagliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Dapagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine is administered to patients taking metformin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Dapagliflozin; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Desflurane: (Major) Avoid administration of pseudoephedrine products to patients who have recently undergone, or will soon undergo, a procedure or treatment that requires general anesthesia. Specifically, halogenated anesthetics may sensitize the myocardium to the effects of sympathomimetics, including pseudoephedrine.
Desipramine: (Major) Avoid use of pseudoephedrine and tricyclic antidepressants as tricyclic antidepressants may potentiate the effects of catecholamines. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and tricyclic antidepressants. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Desloratadine: (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Desloratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Deutetrabenazine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with deutetrabenazine should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Dexchlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with dexmedetomidine should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. CNS depression is a desired effect of dexmedetomidine; however, concurrent use with a CNS depressant may prolong recovery. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor patients closely.
Dextromethorphan; buPROPion: (Moderate) Use extreme caution when coadministering bupropion with other drugs that lower the seizure threshold, such as pseudoephedrine. Use low initial doses of bupropion and increase the dose gradually.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with benzodiazepines should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Diazoxide: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Dicyclomine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant cetirizine and dicyclomine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Difelikefalin: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Dihydroergotamine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with pseudoephedrine is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
dilTIAZem: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
dimenhyDRINATE: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Dipeptidyl Peptidase-4 Inhibitors: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Major) Atropine blocks the vagal reflex bradycardia caused by pseudoephedrine, and increases its pressor effect. Patients need to be asked whether they have taken pseudoephedrine before receiving atropine. (Moderate) Concurrent administration of diphenoxylate/difenoxin with cetirizine can potentiate the CNS-depressant effects of diphenoxylate/difenoxin. Use caution during coadministration. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant cetirizine and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
DOPamine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Doxazosin: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Doxepin: (Major) Avoid use of pseudoephedrine and tricyclic antidepressants as tricyclic antidepressants may potentiate the effects of catecholamines. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and tricyclic antidepressants. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Doxylamine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Doxylamine; Pyridoxine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Additive drowsiness may occur if cetirizine/levocetirizine is administered with other drugs that depress the CNS, including dronabinol. (Moderate) Concurrent use of dronabinol, THC with sympathomimetics may result in additive hypertension, tachycardia, and possibly cardiotoxicity. Dronabinol, THC has been associated with occasional hypotension, hypertension, syncope, and tachycardia. In a study of 7 adult males, combinations of IV cocaine and smoked marijuana, 1 g marijuana cigarette, 0 to 2.7% delta-9-THC, increased the heart rate above levels seen with either agent alone, with increases plateauing at 50 bpm.
droPERidol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with droperidol should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Droxidopa: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Dulaglutide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Empagliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine is administered to patients taking metformin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Empagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine is administered to patients taking metformin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Enalapril, Enalaprilat: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Entacapone: (Moderate) Caution is recommended during concurrent use of cetirizine or levocetirizine with COMT inhibitors because of the possibility for additive sedative effects. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
ePHEDrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
ePHEDrine; guaiFENesin: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
EPINEPHrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Epoprostenol: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with epoprostenol. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including epoprostenol. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Ergotamine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with pseudoephedrine is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Ergotamine; Caffeine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with pseudoephedrine is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Ertugliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Ertugliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine is administered to patients taking metformin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Ertugliflozin; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Esketamine: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and cetirizine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Esmolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Estazolam: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with benzodiazepines should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Eszopiclone: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with eszopiclone should generally be avoided. Concurrent use of eszopiclone with other CNS depressants increases the risk for CNS depression and complex sleep-related behaviors (e.g., driving, talking, eating, or performing other activities while not fully awake). If concurrent use is necessary, patients should be instructed to contact their provider immediately if these symptoms or behaviors occur.
Ethacrynic Acid: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Ethanol: (Major) Advise patients to avoid alcohol consumption while taking CNS depressants. Alcohol consumption may result in additive CNS depression.
Etomidate: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with general anesthetics should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. CNS depression is a desired effect of general anesthetics; however, concurrent use with a CNS depressant may prolong recovery. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor patients closely.
Exenatide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Felodipine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Fenfluramine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of fenfluramine and cetirizine. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Fenoldopam: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
fentaNYL: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and cetirizine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
flavoxATE: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant cetirizine and flavoxate use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Flibanserin: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with flibanserin should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Flurazepam: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with benzodiazepines should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Fluticasone; Salmeterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant salmeterol and pseudoephedrine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Fluticasone; Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Fluticasone; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Food: (Major) Advise patients to avoid cannabis use while taking CNS depressants due to the risk for additive CNS depression and potential for other cognitive adverse reactions.
Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant pseudoephedrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Formoterol; Mometasone: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant pseudoephedrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Fosinopril: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Furosemide: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Gabapentin: (Moderate) Monitor for respiratory depression and sedation during concomitant cetirizine and gabapentin use; consider starting gabapentin at a low dose. Concomitant use increases the risk for additive CNS depression.
General anesthetics: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with general anesthetics should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. CNS depression is a desired effect of general anesthetics; however, concurrent use with a CNS depressant may prolong recovery. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor patients closely.
Ginger, Zingiber officinale: (Minor) In vitro studies have demonstrated the positive inotropic effects of certain gingerol constituents of ginger; but it is unclear if whole ginger root exhibits these effects clinically in humans. It is theoretically possible that excessive doses of ginger could affect the action of vasopressors like pseudoephedrine; however, no clinical data are available.
Glimepiride: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
glipiZIDE: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine is administered to patients taking metformin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
glyBURIDE: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine is administered to patients taking metformin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Glycopyrrolate: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant cetirizine and glycopyrrolate use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant pseudoephedrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects. (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant cetirizine and glycopyrrolate use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
guanFACINE: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with guanfacine should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Halogenated Anesthetics: (Major) Avoid administration of pseudoephedrine products to patients who have recently undergone, or will soon undergo, a procedure or treatment that requires general anesthesia. Specifically, halogenated anesthetics may sensitize the myocardium to the effects of sympathomimetics, including pseudoephedrine.
Haloperidol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with haloperidol should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence. (Moderate) Non-cardiovascular drugs with alpha-blocking activity such as haloperidol directly counteract the effects of pseudoephedrine and can counter the desired pharmacologic effect. They also can be used to treat excessive pseudoephedrine-induced hypertension.
Heparin: (Minor) Antihistamines may partially counteract the anticoagulant actions of heparin, according to the product labels. However, this interaction is not likely of clinical significance since heparin therapy is adjusted to the partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) and other clinical parameters of the patient.
Heterocyclic antidepressants: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with heterocyclic antidepressants should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of anticholinergic and CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive anticholinergic effects, sedation, and somnolence.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and cetirizine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant cetirizine and homatropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
hydrALAZINE: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
hydrALAZINE; Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
HYDROcodone: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and cetirizine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and cetirizine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
HYDROmorphone: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and cetirizine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
hydrOXYzine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Hyoscyamine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant cetirizine and hyoscyamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant cetirizine and hyoscyamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Iloperidone: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of atypical antipsychotics and cetirizine due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Iloprost: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with iloprost. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including iloprost. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Imipramine: (Major) Avoid use of pseudoephedrine and tricyclic antidepressants as tricyclic antidepressants may potentiate the effects of catecholamines. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and tricyclic antidepressants. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Incretin Mimetics: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Indapamide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Insulin Aspart: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Aspart; Insulin Aspart Protamine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Degludec: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Degludec; Liraglutide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Detemir: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Glargine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Glargine; Lixisenatide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Glulisine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Icodec: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Lispro: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Lispro; Insulin Lispro Protamine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin, Inhaled: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulins: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Iobenguane I 123: (Major) Discontinue medications that decrease norepinephrine uptake, such as pseudoephedrine, for at least 5 biological half-lives prior to iobenguane I 123 administration. Consider medication tapering or additional supportive therapy as appropriate to minimize the risk for precipitating pseudoephedrine withdrawal symptoms. Medications that decrease the uptake of norepinephrine can cause false negative imaging results. Increasing the dose of iobenguane I 123 will not overcome any potential uptake limiting effect of this medication.
Iobenguane I 131: (Major) Discontinue sympathomimetics for at least 5 half-lives before the administration of the dosimetry dose or a therapeutic dose of iobenguane I-131. Do not restart sympathomimetics until at least 7 days after each iobenguane I-131 dose. Drugs that reduce catecholamine uptake or deplete catecholamine stores, such as sympathomimetics, may interfere with iobenguane I-131 uptake into cells and interfere with dosimetry calculations resulting in altered iobenguane I-131 efficacy.
Ipratropium; Albuterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant albuterol and pseudoephedrine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Irbesartan: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Isocarboxazid: (Contraindicated) In general, sympathomimetics should be avoided in patients receiving MAOIs due to an increased risk of hypertensive crisis. This applies to sympathomimetics including stimulants for ADHD, narcolepsy or weight loss, nasal, oral, and ophthalmic decongestants and cold products, and respiratory sympathomimetics (e.g., beta agonist drugs). Some local anesthetics also contain a sympathomimetic (e.g., epinephrine). In general, medicines containing sympathomimetic agents should not be used concurrently with MAOIs or within 14 days before or after their use. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Isoflurane: (Major) Avoid administration of pseudoephedrine products to patients who have recently undergone, or will soon undergo, a procedure or treatment that requires general anesthesia. Specifically, halogenated anesthetics may sensitize the myocardium to the effects of sympathomimetics, including pseudoephedrine. (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with general anesthetics should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. CNS depression is a desired effect of general anesthetics; however, concurrent use with a CNS depressant may prolong recovery. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor patients closely.
Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Isosorbide Mononitrate: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Isradipine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Ketamine: (Moderate) Closely monitor vital signs when ketamine and pseudoephedrine are coadministered; consider dose adjustment individualized to the patient's clinical situation. Pseudoephedrine may enhance the sympathomimetic effects of ketamine. (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with general anesthetics should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. CNS depression is a desired effect of general anesthetics; however, concurrent use with a CNS depressant may prolong recovery. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor patients closely.
Labetalol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Landiolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Lemborexant: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lemborexant and cetirizine. Dosage adjustments of lemborexant and cetirizine may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if lemborexant is taken with other CNS depressants.
Levalbuterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant albuterol and pseudoephedrine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Levamlodipine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Levobunolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Levorphanol: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and cetirizine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Levothyroxine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Levothyroxine; Liothyronine (Porcine): (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Linagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine is administered to patients taking metformin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Linezolid: (Moderate) Linezolid may enhance the hypertensive effect of pseudoephedrine. Closely monitor for increased blood pressure during coadministration. Linezolid is an antibiotic that is also a weak, reversible nonselective inhibitor of monoamine oxidase (MAO). Therefore, linezolid has the potential for interaction with adrenergic agents, such as pseudoephedrine.
Liothyronine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Liraglutide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Lisinopril: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Lixisenatide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Lofexidine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with lofexidine should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Loop diuretics: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Coadministration of cetirizine and ritonavir resulted in a 42% increase in the AUC, 53% increase in half-life, and 29% decrease in clearance of cetirizine. Cetirizine did not alter ritonavir disposition.
Loratadine: (Minor) Although loratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of loratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Loratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) Although loratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of loratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
LORazepam: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with benzodiazepines should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Losartan: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Loxapine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with loxapine should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Lumateperone: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of atypical antipsychotics and cetirizine due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Lurasidone: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of atypical antipsychotics and cetirizine due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Macitentan: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Macitentan; Tadalafil: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Mecamylamine: (Major) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by mecamylamine. Close monitoring of blood pressure or the selection of alternative therapeutic agents may be needed.
Meclizine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Meglitinides: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Melatonin: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of cetirizine and melatonin due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Meperidine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and cetirizine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Meprobamate: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with meprobamate should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Metaproterenol: (Major) Caution and close observation should also be used when metaproterenol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Metaxalone: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of cetirizine and skeletal muscle relaxants due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine is administered to patients taking metformin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
metFORMIN; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine is administered to patients taking metformin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
metFORMIN; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine is administered to patients taking metformin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Methadone: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and cetirizine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
methazolAMIDE: (Moderate) Methazolamide can decrease the urinary excretion and enhance the clinical effects of pseudoephedrine. Use caution if methazolamide is coadministered; monitor for excessive pseudoephedrine-related adverse effects.
Methenamine; Sodium Acid Phosphate; Methylene Blue; Hyoscyamine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant cetirizine and hyoscyamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Methohexital: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with barbiturates should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Methscopolamine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant cetirizine and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Methyldopa: (Major) Sympathomimetics, such as pseudoephedrine, can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of methyldopa when administered concomitantly. Blood pressure should be monitored closely to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with methyldopa should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Methylergonovine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as pseudoephedrine, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
metOLazone: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Metoprolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Midazolam: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with benzodiazepines should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Midodrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Miglitol: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Minoxidil: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Mirtazapine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of cetirizine and mirtazapine due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Moexipril: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Molindone: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with molindone should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: (Contraindicated) In general, sympathomimetics should be avoided in patients receiving MAOIs due to an increased risk of hypertensive crisis. This applies to sympathomimetics including stimulants for ADHD, narcolepsy or weight loss, nasal, oral, and ophthalmic decongestants and cold products, and respiratory sympathomimetics (e.g., beta agonist drugs). Some local anesthetics also contain a sympathomimetic (e.g., epinephrine). In general, medicines containing sympathomimetic agents should not be used concurrently with MAOIs or within 14 days before or after their use. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Morphine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and cetirizine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Nadolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Nalbuphine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with nalbuphine should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Nateglinide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Nebivolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Nefazodone: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with nefazodone should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Neostigmine; Glycopyrrolate: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant cetirizine and glycopyrrolate use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
NiCARdipine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Nicotine: (Minor) Vasoconstricting nasal decongestants such as oxymetazoline, phenylephrine, pseudoephedrine, and tetrahydrozoline prolong the time to peak effect of nasally administered nicotine (i.e., nicotine nasal spray); however, no dosage adjustments are recommended.
NIFEdipine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
niMODipine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Coadministration of cetirizine and ritonavir resulted in a 42% increase in the AUC, 53% increase in half-life, and 29% decrease in clearance of cetirizine. Cetirizine did not alter ritonavir disposition.
Nisoldipine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Nitrates: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Nitroglycerin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Nitroprusside: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Norepinephrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Nortriptyline: (Major) Avoid use of pseudoephedrine and tricyclic antidepressants as tricyclic antidepressants may potentiate the effects of catecholamines. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and tricyclic antidepressants. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of atypical antipsychotics and cetirizine due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of atypical antipsychotics and cetirizine due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of atypical antipsychotics and cetirizine due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Oliceridine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and cetirizine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Olmesartan: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Opiate Agonists: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and cetirizine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Opicapone: (Moderate) Caution is recommended during concurrent use of cetirizine or levocetirizine with COMT inhibitors because of the possibility for additive sedative effects. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Orforglipron: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of cetirizine and skeletal muscle relaxants due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Oxazepam: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with benzodiazepines should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
oxyBUTYnin: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant cetirizine and oxybutynin use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
oxyCODONE: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and cetirizine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
oxyMORphone: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and cetirizine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Paliperidone: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of atypical antipsychotics and cetirizine due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Pentazocine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with pentazocine should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
PENTobarbital: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with barbiturates should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Perampanel: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with perampanel should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Perindopril: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Major) Avoid use of pseudoephedrine and tricyclic antidepressants as tricyclic antidepressants may potentiate the effects of catecholamines. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and tricyclic antidepressants. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Phenelzine: (Contraindicated) In general, sympathomimetics should be avoided in patients receiving MAOIs due to an increased risk of hypertensive crisis. This applies to sympathomimetics including stimulants for ADHD, narcolepsy or weight loss, nasal, oral, and ophthalmic decongestants and cold products, and respiratory sympathomimetics (e.g., beta agonist drugs). Some local anesthetics also contain a sympathomimetic (e.g., epinephrine). In general, medicines containing sympathomimetic agents should not be used concurrently with MAOIs or within 14 days before or after their use. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
PHENobarbital: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with barbiturates should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Atropine blocks the vagal reflex bradycardia caused by pseudoephedrine, and increases its pressor effect. Patients need to be asked whether they have taken pseudoephedrine before receiving atropine. (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with barbiturates should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence. (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant cetirizine and hyoscyamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant cetirizine and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant cetirizine and scopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Phenoxybenzamine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Phentolamine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Phenylephrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Pimavanserin: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with pimavanserin should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Pimozide: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with pimozide should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Pindolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Pioglitazone: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking thiazolidinediones. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Pioglitazone; Glimepiride: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking thiazolidinediones. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Pioglitazone; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine is administered to patients taking metformin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking thiazolidinediones. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Potassium-sparing diuretics: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Pramipexole: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with pramipexole should generally be avoided because of the possibility of additive sedative effects. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Pramlintide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Prazosin: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Pregabalin: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of cetirizine and pregabalin due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Primidone: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with barbiturates should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Procarbazine: (Major) Because procarbazine exhibits some monoamine oxidase inhibitory (MAOI) activity, sympathomimetic drugs should be avoided. As with MAOIs, the use of a sympathomimetic drug with procarbazine may precipitate hypertensive crisis or other serious side effects. In the presence of MAOIs, drugs that cause release of norepinephrine induce severe cardiovascular and cerebrovascular responses. In general, do not use a sympathomimetic drug unless clinically necessary (e.g., medical emergencies, agents like dopamine) within the 14 days prior, during or 14 days after procarbazine therapy. If use is necessary within 2 weeks of the MAOI drug, in general the initial dose of the sympathomimetic agent must be greatly reduced. Patients should be counseled to avoid non-prescription (OTC) decongestants and other drug products, weight loss products, and energy supplements that contain sympathomimetic agents.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Propofol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with general anesthetics should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. CNS depression is a desired effect of general anesthetics; however, concurrent use with a CNS depressant may prolong recovery. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor patients closely.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Protriptyline: (Major) Avoid use of pseudoephedrine and tricyclic antidepressants as tricyclic antidepressants may potentiate the effects of catecholamines. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and tricyclic antidepressants. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Quazepam: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with benzodiazepines should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
QUEtiapine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of atypical antipsychotics and cetirizine due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Quinapril: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Racepinephrine: (Major) Racepinephrine is a sympathomimetic drug with agonist actions at both the alpha and beta receptors. Patients using racepinephrine inhalation are advised to avoid other non-prescription products containing sympathomimetics since additive adverse effects on the cardiovascular and nervous system are possible, some which may be undesirable. Side effects such as nausea, tremor, nervousness, difficulty with sleep, and increased heart rate or blood pressure may be additive. Patients should avoid use of non-prescription decongestants, such as phenylephrine and pseudoephedrine, while using racepinephrine inhalations. Patients should avoid dietary supplements containing ingredients that are reported or claimed to have a stimulant or weight-loss effect, such as ephedrine and ephedra, Ma huang, and phenylpropanolamine. Patients taking prescription sympathomimetic or stimulant medications (including amphetamines, methylphenidate, dexmethylphenidate, isometheptane, epinephrine) should seek health care professional advice prior to the use of racepinephrine inhalations; consider therapeutic alternatives to racepinephrine for these patients.
Ramelteon: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with ramelton should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Ramipril: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with rasagiline should generally be avoided because of the possibility of additive sedative effects. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Moderate) The concomitant use of rasagiline and sympathomimetics was not allowed in clinical studies; therefore, caution is advised during concurrent use of rasagiline and sympathomimetics including stimulants for ADHD and weight loss, non-prescription nasal, oral, and ophthalmic decongestants, and weight loss dietary supplements containing Ephedra. Although sympathomimetics are contraindicated for use with other non-selective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), hypertensive reactions generally are not expected to occur during concurrent use with rasagiline because of the selective monoamine oxidase-B (MAO-B) inhibition of rasagiline at manufacturer recommended doses. One case of elevated blood pressure has been reported in a patient during concurrent use of the recommended dose of rasagiline and ophthalmic tetrahydrozoline. One case of hypertensive crisis has been reported in a patient taking the recommended dose of another MAO-B inhibitor, selegiline, in combination with ephedrine. It should be noted that the MAO-B selectivity of rasagiline decreases in a dose-related manner as increases are made above the recommended daily dose and interactions with sympathomimetics may be more likely to occur at these higher doses.
Regular Insulin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Regular Insulin; Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Remifentanil: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and cetirizine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Remimazolam: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with benzodiazepines should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Repaglinide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Riociguat: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with riociguat. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including riociguat. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of atypical antipsychotics and cetirizine due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Ritonavir: (Moderate) Coadministration of cetirizine and ritonavir resulted in a 42% increase in the AUC, 53% increase in half-life, and 29% decrease in clearance of cetirizine. Cetirizine did not alter ritonavir disposition.
rOPINIRole: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with ropinirole should generally be avoided because of the possibility of additive sedative effects. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Rotigotine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with rotigotine should generally be avoided because of the possibility of additive sedative effects. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Sacubitril; Valsartan: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Safinamide: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with safinamide should generally be avoided because of the possibility of additive sedative effects. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide concurrently with sympathomimetic medications, such as pseudoephedrine. If concomitant use of safinamide and pseudoephedrine is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
Salmeterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant salmeterol and pseudoephedrine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Scopolamine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant cetirizine and scopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Secobarbital: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with barbiturates should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Sedating H1-blockers: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Selegiline: (Contraindicated) The product label for pseudoephedrine contraindicates use with monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) due to the risk of hypertensive crisis. Pseudoephedrine should generally not be used concurrently with MAOIs or within 14 days before or after their use. Uncontrolled hypertension has been reported when taking the recommended dose of oral selegiline and a sympathomimetic medication. The manufacturers of selegiline products recommend caution and monitoring of blood pressure during concurrent use with sympathomimetics. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of cetirizine and selegiline due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Selexipag: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Semaglutide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Sevoflurane: (Major) Avoid administration of pseudoephedrine products to patients who have recently undergone, or will soon undergo, a procedure or treatment that requires general anesthesia. Specifically, halogenated anesthetics may sensitize the myocardium to the effects of sympathomimetics, including pseudoephedrine. (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with general anesthetics should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. CNS depression is a desired effect of general anesthetics; however, concurrent use with a CNS depressant may prolong recovery. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor patients closely.
SGLT2 Inhibitors: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Sincalide: (Moderate) Sincalide-induced gallbladder ejection fraction may be affected by concurrent medications, including H1-blockers. False study results are possible; thorough patient history is important in the interpretation of procedure results.
SITagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Skeletal Muscle Relaxants: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of cetirizine and skeletal muscle relaxants due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Sodium Oxybate: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with sodium oxybate should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Solriamfetol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during routine coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and pseudoephedrine, a CNS stimulant. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Sotagliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Sotalol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Spironolactone: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant use of pseudoephedrine and St. John's Wort. St. John's Wort has been shown to weakly inhibit monoamine oxidase and may potentiate the effects of pseudoephedrine on blood pressure.
Stiripentol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with stiripentol should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
SUFentanil: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and cetirizine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Sulfonylureas: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Suvorexant: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with suvorexant should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Tapentadol: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and cetirizine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Tasimelteon: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with tasimelteon should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Telmisartan: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Temazepam: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with benzodiazepines should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Terazosin: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Terbutaline: (Major) Concomitant use of sympathomimetics with beta-agonists might result in additive cardiovascular effects such as increased blood pressure and heart rate.
Tetrabenazine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with tetrabenazine should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Thalidomide: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with thalidomide should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Theophylline, Aminophylline: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of theophylline or aminophylline with some sympathomimetics can produce excessive stimulation and effects such as nervousness, irritability, or insomnia. Seizures or cardiac arrhythmias are also possible. (Moderate) Concurrent administration of theophylline or aminophylline with sympathomimetics can produce excessive stimulation manifested by skeletal muscle activity, agitation, and hyperactivity. (Minor) Large doses of aminophylline may reduce the clearance of cetirizine/levocetirizine. Monitor the patient clinically for an altered response to cetirizine/levocetirizine if coadministered with aminophylline. (Minor) Large doses of theophylline may reduce the clearance of cetirizine/levocetirizine. Monitor the patient clinically for increased cetirizine/levocetirizine-related adverse effects if coadministered with theophylline.
Thiazide diuretics: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Thiazolidinediones: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking thiazolidinediones. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Thiothixene: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with thiothixene should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Thyroid hormones: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Timolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Tirzepatide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Tolcapone: (Moderate) Caution is recommended during concurrent use of cetirizine or levocetirizine with COMT inhibitors because of the possibility for additive sedative effects. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Torsemide: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Tradipitant: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
traMADol: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and cetirizine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and cetirizine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Trandolapril: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Tranylcypromine: (Contraindicated) In general, sympathomimetics should be avoided in patients receiving MAOIs due to an increased risk of hypertensive crisis. This applies to sympathomimetics including stimulants for ADHD, narcolepsy or weight loss, nasal, oral, and ophthalmic decongestants and cold products, and respiratory sympathomimetics (e.g., beta agonist drugs). Some local anesthetics also contain a sympathomimetic (e.g., epinephrine). In general, medicines containing sympathomimetic agents should not be used concurrently with MAOIs or within 14 days before or after their use. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
traZODone: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of cetirizine and trazodone due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Treprostinil: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with treprostinil. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including treprostinil. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Triamterene: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Triazolam: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with benzodiazepines should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Major) Avoid use of pseudoephedrine and tricyclic antidepressants as tricyclic antidepressants may potentiate the effects of catecholamines. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and tricyclic antidepressants. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Trihexyphenidyl: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant cetirizine and trihexyphenidyl use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Trimipramine: (Major) Avoid use of pseudoephedrine and tricyclic antidepressants as tricyclic antidepressants may potentiate the effects of catecholamines. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and tricyclic antidepressants. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Triprolidine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Trospium: (Moderate) Dry mouth and drowsiness may occur in patients receiving cetirizine/levocetirizine; caution may be necessary during concomitant use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with the antimuscarinics.
Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Valerian, Valeriana officinalis: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with valerian should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Valproic Acid, Divalproex Sodium: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with valproic acid should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Valsartan: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Vasodilators: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Vasopressin, ADH: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Vasopressors: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Verapamil: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Xanomeline; Trospium: (Moderate) Dry mouth and drowsiness may occur in patients receiving cetirizine/levocetirizine; caution may be necessary during concomitant use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with the antimuscarinics.
Zaleplon: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of cetirizine and zaleplon due to the risk for additive CNS depression and next-day psychomotor impairment; dose adjustments may be necessary.
Ziprasidone: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of atypical antipsychotics and cetirizine due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Zolpidem: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of cetirizine and zolpidem due to the risk for additive CNS depression and next-day psychomotor impairment; dose adjustments may be necessary. Limit the dose of Intermezzo sublingual tablets to 1.75 mg/day.
Zuranolone: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  NOTE: This monograph discusses the adverse effects of cetirizine and pseudoephedrine combination products for the relief of nasal congestion, and allergic rhinitis. Clinicians may wish to consult the individual cetirizine or pseudoephedrine drug monographs for more specific information.Cetirizine is well tolerated, with discontinuation rates due to adverse events similar to placebo (roughly 2%). Cetirizine may cause drowsiness or sedation in some patients, although not as much as the traditional antihistamines. Compared to placebo (6.3%), cetirizine has been associated with dose-related somnolence or drowsiness (13.7%). One report has noted that cetirizine exhibits a higher incidence of sedation than fexofenadine or loratadine. Concurrent use with alcohol or other CNS depressants should be avoided. Fatigue and xerostomia, also dose-related, have been reported in roughly 5% of patients versus 2% taking placebo. Dizziness and pharyngitis occurred in 2% of patients, similar to placebo. Pseudoephedrine can also be associated with adverse CNS effects, including insomnia, nervousness or anxiety. At excessively high pseudoephedrine doses, seizures, hallucinations and psychosis may occur. Due to decreased elimination and potential pseudoephedrine drug accumulation, patients with renal failure may be at increased risk for drug-related toxicity, including neurotoxicity. The dosage of cetirizine; pseudoephedrine should be reduced in patients with renal impairment (see Dosage, Precautions). Elderly patients and children appear to be more sensitive to the CNS stimulation effects of pseudoephedrine. Elderly patients may also have reduced elimination of cetirizine; pseudoephedrine due to age-related declines in renal function.There have been a few reports of abnormalities in liver function tests (elevated hepatic enzymes) with the use of cetirizine. Most of these events resolved spontaneously. Hepatitis with significant changes in LFTs and hyperbilirubinemia has been reported rarely.Post-marketing reports have shown the following rare but serious events in clinical use of cetirizine: anaphylactoid reactions, anaphylactic shock, cholestasis, glomerulonephritis, hemolytic anemia, hepatitis, orofacial dyskinesia, severe hypotension, stillbirth (fetal demise), thrombocytopenia, aggressive behavior, and convulsions (seizures). A causal relationship of cetirizine to such events, and others observed in open label studies in < 2% of patients, has not been determined. There has been no suggestion that cetirizine has any arrhythmogenic potential. There have not been any reports of changes in ECG recordings or other cardiac abnormalities.As with other sympathomimetics, cardiovascular adverse effects may occur during pseudoephedrine therapy including angina, cardiac arrhythmias (or arrhythmia exacerbation), hypertension, myocardial infarction, or stroke; these effects generally occur at excessive dosage or in patients at higher risk (see Contraindications). Pseudoephedrine and phenylephrine appear to have a lower propensity to cause hypertension and potential sequelae (e.g., stroke, hypertensive crisis, intracranial bleeding) compared to ephedrine or phenylpropanolamine. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses (240 mg/day PO) do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure , however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients. Although infrequent, cardiac arrhythmias secondary to pseudoephedrine may occur in the general population at therapeutic doses and include palpitations, premature ventricular contractions (PVCs), supraventricular tachycardia (SVT), and sinus tachycardia.Ocular effects can occur with pseudoephedrine products. These can include increased intraocular pressure (ocular hypertension) and photophobia.Pseudoephedrine also can produce GI and GU effects such as nausea/vomiting, anorexia, and dysuria. Ischemic colitis has been associated with the use of pseudoephedrine and may present with symptoms of abdominal pain and bloody diarrhea. Colitis may result from reversible splanchnic arterial vasoconstriction and may occur with acute or chronic use; the ischemic symptoms usually resolve upon discontinuation of pseudoephedrine.Several significant dermatological reactions have been reported infrequently with pseudoephedrine use. These reactions include: fixed drug eruption or exanthema, contact dermatitis, and other rash (unspecified). In general, the onset of the skin reactions occurs within 24 hours of administration and resolves in 2—3 days following drug discontinuation.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    NOTE: This monograph discusses the adverse effects of cetirizine and pseudoephedrine combination products for the relief of nasal congestion, and allergic rhinitis. Clinicians may wish to consult the individual cetirizine or pseudoephedrine drug monographs for more specific information.
    Headline
    anxiety, dizziness, drowsiness, fatigue, hallucinations, insomnia, psychosis, seizures, xerostomia
    General Information
    Cetirizine is well tolerated, with discontinuation rates due to adverse events similar to placebo (roughly 2%). Cetirizine may cause drowsiness or sedation in some patients, although not as much as the traditional antihistamines. Compared to placebo (6.3%), cetirizine has been associated with dose-related somnolence or drowsiness (13.7%). One report has noted that cetirizine exhibits a higher incidence of sedation than fexofenadine or loratadine. Concurrent use with alcohol or other CNS depressants should be avoided. Fatigue and xerostomia, also dose-related, have been reported in roughly 5% of patients versus 2% taking placebo. Dizziness and pharyngitis occurred in 2% of patients, similar to placebo. Pseudoephedrine can also be associated with adverse CNS effects, including insomnia, nervousness, or anxiety. At excessively high pseudoephedrine doses, seizures, hallucinations and psychosis may occur. Due to decreased elimination and potential pseudoephedrine drug accumulation, patients with renal failure may be at increased risk for drug-related toxicity, including neurotoxicity. The dosage of cetirizine; pseudoephedrine should be reduced in patients with renal impairment. Elderly patients and children appear to be more sensitive to the CNS stimulation effects of pseudoephedrine. Elderly patients may also have reduced elimination of cetirizine; pseudoephedrine due to age-related declines in renal function.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anxiety
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      hallucinations
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      psychosis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      seizures
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatitis, hyperbilirubinemia
    General Information
    There have been a few reports of abnormalities in liver function tests (elevated hepatic enzymes) with the use of cetirizine. Most of these events resolved spontaneously. Hepatitis with significant changes in LFTs and hyperbilirubinemia has been reported rarely.
    Headline
    anaphylactic shock, anaphylactoid reactions
    General Information
    Post-marketing reports have shown the following rare but serious events in clinical use of cetirizine: anaphylactoid reactions, anaphylactic shock, cholestasis, glomerulonephritis, hemolytic anemia, hepatitis, orofacial dyskinesia, severe hypotension, stillbirth (fetal demise), thrombocytopenia, aggressive behavior, and convulsions (seizures). A causal relationship of cetirizine to such events, and others observed in open label studies in < 2% of patients, has not been determined. There has been no suggestion that cetirizine has any arrhythmogenic potential. There have not been any reports of changes in ECG recordings or other cardiac abnormalities.
    Headline
    angina, arrhythmia exacerbation, hypertension, myocardial infarction, palpitations, premature ventricular contractions (PVCs), sinus tachycardia, stroke, supraventricular tachycardia (SVT)
    General Information
    As with other sympathomimetics, cardiovascular adverse effects may occur during pseudoephedrine therapy including angina, cardiac arrhythmias (or arrhythmia exacerbation), hypertension, myocardial infarction, or stroke; these effects generally occur at excessive dosage or in patients at higher risk. Pseudoephedrine and phenylephrine appear to have a lower propensity to cause hypertension and potential sequelae (e.g., stroke, hypertensive crisis, intracranial bleeding) compared to ephedrine or phenylpropanolamine. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses (240 mg/day PO) do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure , however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients. Although infrequent, cardiac arrhythmias secondary to pseudoephedrine may occur in the general population at therapeutic doses and include palpitations, premature ventricular contractions (PVCs), supraventricular tachycardia (SVT), and sinus tachycardia.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      angina
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      arrhythmia exacerbation
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      myocardial infarction
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      palpitations
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      premature ventricular contractions (PVCs)
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      sinus tachycardia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      stroke
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      supraventricular tachycardia (SVT)
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    ocular hypertension, photophobia
    General Information
    Ocular effects can occur with pseudoephedrine-containing products, such as cetirizine; pseudoephedrine. These can include increased intraocular pressure (ocular hypertension) and photophobia.
    Headline
    anorexia, colitis, dysuria, nausea, vomiting
    General Information
    Pseudoephedrine-containing products, such as cetirizine; pseudoephedrine, can produce GI and GU effects such as nausea, vomiting, anorexia, and dysuria. Ischemic colitis has been associated with the use of pseudoephedrine and may present with symptoms of abdominal pain and bloody diarrhea. Colitis may result from reversible splanchnic arterial vasoconstriction and may occur with acute or chronic use; the ischemic symptoms usually resolve upon discontinuation of pseudoephedrine.
    Headline
    contact dermatitis, pruritus, rash
    General Information
    Severe itching, or pruritus, has been reported in individuals discontinuing cetirizine after long-term use. Individuals did not experience pruritus before initiating cetirizine, but typically within a few days of stopping cetirizine after daily use for a few months to years. Most individuals who experienced pruritus after discontinuation reported using cetirizine for more than 3 months; however, some experienced this reaction after less than 1 month of use. Reported cases were rare but sometimes serious, with individuals experiencing widespread, severe itching that required medical intervention. The FDA identified 209 cases worldwide (197 domestic) of pruritus after discontinuation of cetirizine (n = 180), levocetirizine (n = 27), or both (n = 2) supporting a causal relationship between stopping cetirizine or levocetirizine and pruritus. The number of pruritus cases increased with duration of use, suggesting that longer use may increase the risk for this reaction. Effective treatments have not been evaluated; however, symptoms resolved in most individuals who restarted cetirizine or who tapered off after restarting. Instruct individuals on the risk of pruritus after discontinuing cetirizine, especially if planned for chronic use. Several significant dermatological reactions have been reported infrequently with use of pseudoephedrine-containing products, which may include cetirizine; pseudoephedrine. These reactions include: fixed drug eruption or exanthema, contact dermatitis, and other rash. In general, the onset of the skin reactions occurs within 24 hours of administration and resolves in 2 to 3 days following drug discontinuation.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      contact dermatitis
      Severity
      Moderate

Description
  Text
  NOTE: This monograph discusses the use of cetirizine and pseudoephedrine combination products for the relief of nasal congestion and allergic rhinitis. Clinicians may wish to consult the individual drug monographs for more specific information.
 
Cetirizine and extended-release pseudoephedrine are used together in an oral preparation for the relief of nasal and non-nasal symptoms associated with seasonal or perennial allergic rhinitis. Specifically, the combination may relieve nasal congestion, rhinorrhea, sneezing, itching of the nose or throat, and itchy, watery eyes. Cetirizine is the active metabolite of hydroxyzine, a piperazine H1-receptor antagonist, but has negligible anticholinergic activity. Cetirizine has not been shown to prolong the QTc interval. Pseudoephedrine is a sympathomimetic agent that stimulates alpha-1-adrenergic receptors in vascular smooth muscle. This causes vasoconstriction, resulting in shrinkage of nasal mucous membranes, reduction of tissue hyperemia and edema, and increase in nasal airway patency. Pseudoephedrine is commonly diverted for use as a substrate for the illegal synthesis of amphetamine and methamphetamine. The Combat Methamphetamine Epidemic Act of 2005 governs the sale and purchase of all OTC products containing pseudoephedrine, ephedrine, or phenylpropanolamine in the US. Retailers must keep products in locked cabinets or behind counters prior to purchase, enter individual product purchases and amounts into a log and maintain it for at least 2 years following each sale, require photo identification and verify customer-required entries into the log, and ensure daily and monthly allowable limits on purchases are not exceeded (review Patriot Act Title VII for more information on legal requirements). Rare but severe pruritus has been reported in individuals stopping cetirizine after long-term use (daily use, typically for at least a few months and often for years) that may require medical intervention. Cetirizine; pseudoephedrine (Zyrtec-D) was approved by the FDA in August 2001 as a prescription-only product. In November 2007, the FDA approved Zyrtec-D for use as an OTC medication in adults and children 12 years and older, for hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies.
 
NOTE: In January 2007, the CDC warned caregivers and healthcare providers of the risk for serious injury or fatal overdose from the administration of cough and cold products to children and infants less than 2 years of age. This warning followed an investigation of the deaths of three (3) infants less than 6 months that were attributed to the inadvertent inappropriate use of these products. The symptoms preceding these deaths have not been clearly defined, and there is a lack of conclusive data describing the exact cause of death. The report estimated that 1519 children less than 2 years were treated in emergency departments during 2004-2005 for adverse events related to cough and cold medications. In October 2007, the FDA Nonprescription Drug Advisory Committee and the Pediatric Advisory Committee recommended that nonprescription cough and cold products containing pseudoephedrine, dextromethorphan, chlorpheniramine, diphenhydramine, brompheniramine, phenylephrine, clemastine, or guaifenesin not be used in children less than 6 years of age. In January 2008, the FDA issued a Public Health Advisory recommending that OTC cough and cold products not be used in infants and children less than 2 years. An official ruling regarding the use of these products in children greater than 2 years has not yet been announced. The FDA recommends that if parents and caregivers use cough and cold products in children greater than 2 years, labels should be read carefully, caution should be used when administering multiple products, and only measuring devices specifically designed for use with medications should be used. While some combination cough/cold products containing these ingredients are available by prescription only and are not necessarily under scrutiny by the FDA, clinicians should thoroughly assess each individual's use of similar products, both prescription and nonprescription, to avoid duplication of therapy and the potential for inadvertent overdose.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Cetirizine and pseudoephedrine are used together to provide antihistaminic and decongestant properties to relieve the symptoms associated with seasonal and perennial allergic rhinitis.
 
•Cetirizine: Cetirizine has high affinity for histamine H1-receptors. It has less affinity, however, than terfenadine or hydroxyzine for calcium-channel, alpha-adrenergic, D2-dopamine, 5HT2-serotonin, and muscarinic receptors. In both atopic and normal human volunteers, cetirizine reduction of histamine wheal and flare is similar to that of clemastine, hydroxyzine, and terfenadine. The addition of the less lipophilic carboxyl group to the ethylamine side chain reduces the penetration of cetirizine into the CNS. Consequently, cetirizine produces a lower incidence of sedation compared with older antihistamines. Drowsiness may, nevertheless, be dose-related.
 
In mildly asthmatic patients, cetirizine 5 to 20 mg blocked bronchoconstriction due to nebulized histamine, with total blockade after the 20 mg dose. Pulmonary function has not been altered in asthmatic patients by cetirizine. There are no studies evaluating cetirizine; pseudoephedrine in asthmatic patients.
 
•Pseudoephedrine: Pseudoephedrine is an agonist at both alpha- and, to a lesser degree, beta-adrenergic receptors. Like ephedrine, pseudoephedrine also has an indirect effect by releasing norepinephrine from its storage sites. By stimulating alpha-adrenergic receptors in the mucosa of the respiratory tract, pseudoephedrine shrinks swollen nasal mucous membranes, reduces tissue hyperemia, edema, and nasal congestion, and increases nasal airway patency. Also, drainage of sinus secretions is increased, and obstructed eustachian ostia may be opened. In some patients, especially those with preexisting cardiac disease receiving higher doses, pseudoephedrine may increase blood pressure or irritability of the heart muscle and may affect ventricular conduction.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Cetirizine: When cetirizine is given in conjunction with pseudoephedrine, the bioavailability is similar to that when cetirizine is given alone; coadministration does not affect the bioavailability of either component. Cetirizine has a rapid onset of 1 to 2 hours and a long duration of action. The overall bioavailability is not altered by the presence of food, although the rate of absorption can be slightly reduced. First pass metabolism is low.
Pseudoephedrine: When pseudoephedrine is given in conjunction with cetirizine, the bioavailability is similar to that when pseudoephedrine is given alone.Pseudoephedrine is rapidly absorbed from the combination tablet.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Cetirizine:Cetirizine clearance may be affected by hepatic disease. Patients with chronic liver disease (hepatocellular, cholestatic, and biliary cirrhosis) had a 50% increase in cetirizine half-life along with a 40% decrease in clearance compared to normal subjects.
Pseudoephedrine:The effect of liver disease on pseudoephedrine pharmacokinetics is unknown.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Cetirizine: Cetirizine clearance may be affected by renal impairment. Pharmacokinetic studies have shown the clearance of cetirizine to be similar in subjects with normal renal function and those with mild renal impairment (i.e., CrCl 42 to 77 mL/min). According to the manufacturer, patients with moderate renal impairment (i.e., CrCl 11 to 31 mL/min) and patients on hemodialysis had a 3-fold increase in half-life and a 70% decrease in clearance compared to normal subjects. Less than 10% of a cetirizine dose is removed by hemodialysis. In elderly subjects with a mean age of 77 years, cetirizine half-life was prolonged by 50% and clearance was reduced by 40% after a single 10 mg dose. Although CrCl was not reported in these subjects, the reduction in clearance may be related to reduced renal function.
Pseudoephedrine: Renal impairment significantly reduces pseudoephedrine clearance. The effect of hemodialysis on the removal of extended-release pseudoephedrine is unknown.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Cetirizine: In elderly subjects with a mean age of 77 years, cetirizine half-life was prolonged by 50% and clearance was reduced by 40% after a single 10 mg dose. Although CrCl was not reported in these subjects, the reduction in clearance may be related to reduced renal function.
  Text
  Cetirizine; pseudoephedrine is given orally.
Cetirizine: Penetration into the CNS is poor; CSF concentrations are less than 10% of peak serum concentrations. Cetirizine is distributed into human milk. Protein binding of cetirizine is reported to be 93%. Cetirizine is metabolized to a limited extent via O-dealkylation to a metabolite with negligible activity; the enzyme(s) responsible for metabolism have not been determined. The mean elimination half-life of cetirizine from the combination product is 7.9 hours. Overall recovery of an administered dose is roughly 70% in the urine, of which 50% is unchanged drug. Overall recovery from the feces is roughly 10%.
Pseudoephedrine: Plasma protein binding has not been demonstrated. Pseudoephedrine is presumed to cross the placenta, blood brain barrier, and is distributed into breast milk. Pseudoephedrine is incompletely metabolized in the liver to norpseudoephedrine, the primary active metabolite of the parent. Elimination is primarily renal, with 55 to 75% of a dose being eliminated unchanged. The mean elimination half-life of pseudoephedrine from the cetirizine; pseudoephedrine combination product is 6 hours; however, pseudoephedrine elimination is pH-dependent.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Extended-release tablets
Swallow whole. Do not crush, break or chew.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    10 mg/day PO cetirizine; 240 mg/day PO pseudoephedrine.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    10 mg/day PO cetirizine; 240 mg/day PO pseudoephedrine; if patient is over 77 years, 5 mg/day PO cetirizine and 120 mg/day PO pseudoephedrine.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    10 mg/day PO cetirizine; 240 mg/day PO pseudoephedrine.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    12 years: 10 mg/day PO cetirizine; 240 mg/day PO pseudoephedrine.
Less than 12 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Adjust dosage based on cetirizine component to 5 mg/day PO of cetirizine ; therefore, no more than 1 tablet of this combination product (cetirizine 5 mg and pseudoephedrine 120 mg per extended-release tablet) PO once daily for hepatically-impaired adults, adolescents, and children 12 years and older.
  Renal Impairment
  CrCl 31 mL/minute or less: A dose of cetirizine 5 mg PO once daily has been recommended. 28874 . For this combination product, do not exceed 1 tablet (cetirizine 5 mg and pseudoephedrine 120 mg extended-release) PO once daily for renally-impaired adults, adolescents, and children 12 years and older. Pseudoephedrine dosage reduction has also been suggested for these individuals and cannot be easily accomplished with the fixed dose combination product. Accumulation is expected in people with renal failure and an increased risk for pseudoephedrine toxicity. Many experts recommend against pseudoephedrine use in severe acute or chronic kidney disease (CKD) or renal failure.
