=== Macitentan (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 3827)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Macitentan is an oral endothelin receptor antagonist indicated for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH, WHO Group I) to reduce the risks of disease progression and hospitalizations for PAH.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 10 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): edema, fluid retention, flushing, heart failure, hypotension, peripheral edema, angioedema, pruritus, rash, infection, influenza, nasal congestion, pharyngitis

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Elevations of aminotransferases, hepatotoxicity, and liver failure have been reported with endothelin receptor antagonists, including macitentan. Hazardous drug: NIOSH 2024 List: Table 2

Brand Names
  - Opsumit

Dosage Forms
  - Macitentan 10mg Oral tablet
  - Opsumit 10mg Tablet
  - OPSYNVI 10mg-20mg Tablet
  - OPSYNVI 10mg-40mg Tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        10 mg PO once daily.
    Heading
    For the treatment of pulmonary hypertension to delay disease progression in persons with WHO Group 1 pulmonary hypertension

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    Elevations of aminotransferases, hepatotoxicity, and liver failure have been reported with endothelin receptor antagonists, including macitentan. Obtain liver function tests prior to initiation of macitentan and repeat as clinically indicated during treatment.
    Headline
    anemia
    General Information
    Initiation of macitentan is not recommended in individuals with severe anemia. Monitor hemoglobin prior to starting macitentan and repeat during treatment as clinically indicated. Decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit concentrations have been observed with macitentan.
    Headline
    left ventricular dysfunction
    General Information
    Peripheral edema and fluid retention are known clinical consequences of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) and known effects of endothelin receptor antagonists (ERAs). Individuals with underlying left ventricular dysfunction may be at particular risk for developing significant fluid retention after initiation of ERA treatment. In a small study of macitentan in individuals with PAH because of left ventricular dysfunction, more subjects in the macitentan group developed significant fluid retention and had more hospitalizations because of worsening heart failure compared to those randomized to placebo. Monitor for signs of fluid retention following macitentan initiation. If clinically significant fluid retention develops, evaluate the individual to determine the cause, such as macitentan or underlying heart failure, and whether to discontinue macitentan.
    Headline
    pulmonary veno-occlusive disease
    General Information
    Use macitentan with caution in individuals with pulmonary veno-occlusive disease (PVOD). Pulmonary vasodilatory therapies, such as macitentan, may cause life-threatening pulmonary edema in individuals with PVOD. If signs of pulmonary edema occur, consider the possibility of associated PVOD and whether macitentan should be discontinued.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Macitentan is contraindicated for use during pregnancy. Based on data from animal reproduction studies, macitentan may cause fetal harm, including birth defects and death. Animal studies have demonstrated that macitentan is teratogenic in rabbits and rats at all tested doses, leading to cardiovascular abnormalities, mandibular arch fusion defects, reduced pup survival, and impaired male fertility in offspring. Available data from postmarketing reports and published literature over decades of use with other endothelin receptor antagonists have not identified an increased risk of fetal harm; however, these data are limited and preclude establishing a reliable estimate of the risk of adverse fetal and neonatal outcomes with endothelin receptor antagonist use during pregnancy. If an individual becomes pregnant while being treated with macitentan, discontinue use and counsel them about the potential risks to the fetus.
    Headline
    embryo-fetal toxicity, people who can cause pregnancy in others, people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel people who may become pregnant and people who can cause pregnancy in others about the reproductive risk and embryo-fetal toxicity associated with macitentan. Macitentan may cause fetal harm. Verify pregnancy status prior to treatment initiation, if onset of menses is delayed, or if pregnancy is suspected. Advise people who may become pregnant to use effective contraception prior to treatment initiation, while taking macitentan, and for 1 month after the last dose. Counsel those who may become pregnant on pregnancy planning and prevention, including emergency contraception, or designate counseling by another member of the health care team trained in contraceptive counseling. Macitentan may have an adverse effect on spermatogenesis, potentially causing male infertility.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Avoid the use of macitentan during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of macitentan in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production. Macitentan has the potential to cause serious side effects in the breast-fed child.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Macitentan is contraindicated for use during pregnancy. Based on data from animal reproduction studies, macitentan may cause fetal harm, including birth defects and death. Animal studies have demonstrated that macitentan is teratogenic in rabbits and rats at all tested doses, leading to cardiovascular abnormalities, mandibular arch fusion defects, reduced pup survival, and impaired male fertility in offspring. Available data from postmarketing reports and published literature over decades of use with other endothelin receptor antagonists have not identified an increased risk of fetal harm; however, these data are limited and preclude establishing a reliable estimate of the risk of adverse fetal and neonatal outcomes with endothelin receptor antagonist use during pregnancy. If an individual becomes pregnant while being treated with macitentan, discontinue use and counsel them about the potential risks to the fetus.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Counsel people who may become pregnant and people who can cause pregnancy in others about the reproductive risk and embryo-fetal toxicity associated with macitentan. Macitentan may cause fetal harm. Verify pregnancy status prior to treatment initiation, if onset of menses is delayed, or if pregnancy is suspected. Advise people who may become pregnant to use effective contraception prior to treatment initiation, while taking macitentan, and for 1 month after the last dose. Counsel those who may become pregnant on pregnancy planning and prevention, including emergency contraception, or designate counseling by another member of the health care team trained in contraceptive counseling. Macitentan may have an adverse effect on spermatogenesis, potentially causing male infertility.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Acetaminophen; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Acetaminophen; Phenylephrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Acetaminophen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Adagrasib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of macitentan with adagrasib due to the risk of increased macitentan exposure and adverse effects. Consider alternative treatment options for pulmonary hypertension if treatment with adagrasib is necessary. Macitentan is a CYP3A substrate and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased macitentan exposure by approximately 2-fold.
Amiodarone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of macitentan with amiodarone due to the potential for increases in macitentan exposure and adverse effects. Macitentan is a CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 substrate and amiodarone is a dual moderate CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 inhibitor. Concomitant use is predicted to increase macitentan exposure approximately 4-fold.
Amphetamine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of macitentan with apalutamide due to decreased plasma concentrations of macitentan. Macitentan is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer reduced systemic availability of the pharmacologically active moieties of macitentan by approximately 50% or more, which may lead to reduced efficacy.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of macitentan with cobicistat due to increased plasma concentrations of macitentan. Macitentan is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased macitentan exposure by approximately 2.3-fold.
Benzphetamine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Brodalumab: (Major) Avoid coadministration of macitentan with brodalumab due to the potential for increases in macitentan exposure and adverse effects. Macitentan is a CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 substrate and brodalumab is a dual moderate CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 inhibitor. Concomitant use is predicted to increase macitentan exposure approximately 4-fold.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Cariprazine: (Moderate) Orthostatic vital signs should be monitored in patients who are at risk for hypotension, such as those receiving cariprazine in combination with antihypertensive agents. Atypical antipsychotics may cause orthostatic hypotension and syncope, most commonly during treatment initiation and dosage increases. Patients should be informed about measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning, or rising slowly from a seated position. Consider a cariprazine dose reduction if hypotension occurs.
Ceritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of macitentan with ceritinib due to the risk of increased plasma concentrations of macitentan. Macitentan is a CYP3A4 substrate and ceritinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor approximately doubled macitentan exposure.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of macitentan with cobicistat due to increased plasma concentrations of macitentan. Macitentan is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased macitentan exposure by approximately 2.3-fold.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of macitentan with cobicistat due to increased plasma concentrations of macitentan. Macitentan is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased macitentan exposure by approximately 2.3-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of macitentan with cobicistat due to increased plasma concentrations of macitentan. Macitentan is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased macitentan exposure by approximately 2.3-fold.
Desloratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Dexmethylphenidate: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Dextroamphetamine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Diethylpropion: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
DOBUTamine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
DOPamine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Doxapram: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension and syncope have been reported during duloxetine administration. The concurrent administration of antihypertensive agents and duloxetine may increase the risk of hypotension. It is advisable to monitor blood pressure if the combination is necessary.
Elbasvir; Grazoprevir: (Moderate) Administering macitentan with elbasvir; grazoprevir may result in elevated macitentan plasma concentrations. Macitentan is a substrate of CYP3A; grazoprevir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. If these drugs are used together, closely monitor for signs of adverse events.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of macitentan with cobicistat due to increased plasma concentrations of macitentan. Macitentan is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased macitentan exposure by approximately 2.3-fold.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of macitentan with cobicistat due to increased plasma concentrations of macitentan. Macitentan is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased macitentan exposure by approximately 2.3-fold.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of macitentan with encorafenib due to the risk of decreased macitentan exposure which may lead to reduced efficacy. Macitentan is a CYP3A substrate and encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Ensitrelvir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of macitentan with ensitrelvir due to the risk of increased macitentan exposure and adverse effects. Consider alternative treatment options for pulmonary hypertension if treatment with ensitrelvir is necessary. Macitentan is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased macitentan exposure by approximately 2-fold.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of macitentan with enzalutamide due to decreased plasma concentrations of macitentan. Macitentan is a CYP3A4 substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer reduced systemic availability of the pharmacologically active moieties of macitentan by approximately 50% or more, which may lead to reduced efficacy.
ePHEDrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
ePHEDrine; guaiFENesin: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
EPINEPHrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Fexofenadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Fluconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of macitentan with fluconazole due to the potential for increases in macitentan exposure and adverse effects. Macitentan is a CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 substrate and fluconazole is a dual moderate CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 inhibitor. Concomitant use is predicted to increase macitentan exposure approximately 4-fold.
guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Isavuconazonium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of isavuconazonium with macitentan may result in increased serum concentrations of macitentan. Macitentan is a substrate of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; isavuconazole, the active moiety of isavuconazonium, is a moderate inhibitor of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together.
Isoproterenol: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Itraconazole: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of macitentan and itraconazole. Itraconazole is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration of macitentan with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor (ketoconazole) approximately doubles macitentan exposure. Consider alternative treatment options for pulmonary hypertension if treatment with itraconazole is necessary.
Ketoconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of macitentan with ketoconazole due to the risk of increased macitentan exposure and adverse effects. Consider alternative treatment options for pulmonary hypertension if treatment with ketoconazole is necessary. Macitentan is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased macitentan exposure by approximately 2-fold.
Letermovir: (Moderate) An increase in the plasma concentration of macitentan may occur if given with letermovir. Avoid coadministration in patients who are also receiving treatment with cyclosporine, because the magnitude of this interaction may be amplified. If treatment with letermovir and cyclosporine must be continued, consider use of an alternative pulmonary artery hypertension medication. Macitentan is a CYP3A4 substrate. Letermovir is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; however, when given with cyclosporine, the combined effect on CYP3A4 substrates may be similar to a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concurrent use with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a doubling of macitentan exposure.
Levoketoconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of macitentan with ketoconazole due to the risk of increased macitentan exposure and adverse effects. Consider alternative treatment options for pulmonary hypertension if treatment with ketoconazole is necessary. Macitentan is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased macitentan exposure by approximately 2-fold.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Lisdexamfetamine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of macitentan with lonafarnib due to the risk of increased macitentan exposure and adverse effects. Consider alternative treatment options for pulmonary hypertension if treatment with lonafarnib is necessary. Macitentan is a CYP3A4 substrate and lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased macitentan exposure by approximately 2-fold.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of macitentan and ritonavir. Ritonavir is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration of macitentan with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor approximately doubled macitentan exposure. Consider alternative treatment options for pulmonary hypertension if treatment with ritonavir is necessary.
Loratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Lumacaftor; ivacaftor may reduce the efficacy of macitentan by significantly decreasing its systemic exposure; avoid concomitant use. Macitentan is primarily metabolized via CYP3A4, with a minor contribution from CYP2C19. Lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer; in vitro data suggest lumacaftor; ivacaftor may also induce CYP2C19.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Lumacaftor; ivacaftor may reduce the efficacy of macitentan by significantly decreasing its systemic exposure; avoid concomitant use. Macitentan is primarily metabolized via CYP3A4, with a minor contribution from CYP2C19. Lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer; in vitro data suggest lumacaftor; ivacaftor may also induce CYP2C19.
Lurasidone: (Moderate) Due to the antagonism of lurasidone at alpha-1 adrenergic receptors, the drug may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. If concurrent use of lurasidone and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Methamphetamine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Methylphenidate: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Midodrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Nefazodone: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of macitentan and nefazodone. Nefazodone is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadminsitration of macitentan with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor (ketoconazole) approximately doubles macitentan exposure. Consider alternative treatment options for pulmonary hypertension if treatment with nefazodone is necessary.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of macitentan and ritonavir. Ritonavir is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration of macitentan with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor approximately doubled macitentan exposure. Consider alternative treatment options for pulmonary hypertension if treatment with ritonavir is necessary.
Norepinephrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Phendimetrazine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Phentermine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Phenylephrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Racepinephrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Relacorilant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of macitentan with relacorilant due to the risk of increased macitentan exposure and adverse effects. Consider alternative treatment options for pulmonary hypertension if treatment with relacorilant is necessary. Macitentan is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased macitentan exposure by approximately 2-fold.
Ribociclib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of macitentan with ribociclib due to increased plasma concentrations of macitentan. Macitentan is a CYP3A4 substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased macitentan exposure by approximately 2.3-fold.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of macitentan with ribociclib due to increased plasma concentrations of macitentan. Macitentan is a CYP3A4 substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased macitentan exposure by approximately 2.3-fold.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of macitentan and rifampin. Rifampin is a strong inducer of CYP3A4 and significantly reduces macitentan exposure.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of macitentan with rifapentine due to the risk of decreased macitentan exposure which may lead to reduced efficacy. Macitentan is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of macitentan and ritonavir. Ritonavir is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration of macitentan with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor approximately doubled macitentan exposure. Consider alternative treatment options for pulmonary hypertension if treatment with ritonavir is necessary.
Secukinumab: (Major) Avoid coadministration of macitentan with secukinumab due to the potential for increases in macitentan exposure and adverse effects. Macitentan is a CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 substrate and secukinumab is a dual moderate CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 inhibitor. Concomitant use is predicted to increase macitentan exposure approximately 4-fold.
Serdexmethylphenidate; Dexmethylphenidate: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Sparsentan: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of sparsentan and endothelin receptor antagonists (ERAs) is contraindicated due to the additive risk for serious adverse effects such as hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and renal dysfunction.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Avoid coadministration of macitentan and St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum. St. John's Wort is a strong inducer of CYP3A4. Coadministration with macitentan significantly reduces macitentan exposure.
Sympathomimetics: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Tipranavir: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of macitentan and tipranavir. Tipranavir is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadminsitration of macitentan with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor (ketoconazole) approximately doubles macitentan exposure. Consider alternative treatment options for pulmonary hypertension if treatment with tipranavir is necessary.
Tucatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of macitentan with tucatinib due to increased plasma concentrations of macitentan. Macitentan is a CYP3A4 substrate and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased macitentan exposure by approximately 2.3-fold.
Voriconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of macitentan with voriconazole due to increased plasma concentrations of macitentan. Macitentan is a CYP3A4 substrate and voriconanzole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased macitentan exposure by approximately 2.3-fold.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    headache
    General Information
    Headache was reported with macitentan in 14% of subjects in clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    edema, fluid retention, flushing, heart failure, hypotension, peripheral edema
    General Information
    Edema was reported with macitentan in 21.9% of subjects in clinical trials. Peripheral edema and fluid retention are known clinical consequences of pulmonary arterial hypertension and known effects of endothelin receptor antagonists. Postmarketing cases of edema and fluid retention occurring within weeks of starting macitentan, some requiring intervention with a diuretic or hospitalization for decompensated heart failure, have been reported. Monitor for signs of fluid retention after initiating macitentan. If clinically significant fluid retention develops, determine the cause and evaluate the possible need to discontinue macitentan. Other cardiovascular adverse events reported with macitentan in postmarketing experience include flushing and symptomatic hypotension.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fluid retention
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      flushing
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      heart failure
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatotoxicity
    General Information
    Endothelin receptor antagonists have caused elevations of aminotransferases, hepatotoxicity, and liver failure. During clinical trials, elevated hepatic enzymes more than 3 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) and more than 8 times ULN were reported in 3.4% and 2.1% of macitentan-treated subjects, respectively. Obtain liver function tests prior to initiation of macitentan and repeat during treatment as clinically indicated. If clinically relevant aminotransferase elevations occur, or if elevations are accompanied by an increase in bilirubin more than 2 times ULN, or by clinical symptoms of hepatotoxicity, discontinue macitentan. Consider re-initiation of macitentan when hepatic enzyme concentrations normalize in persons who have not experienced clinical symptoms of hepatotoxicity. In clinical trials, macitentan was discontinued for hepatic adverse events in 3.3% of subjects.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hepatotoxicity
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    infertility, oligospermia
    General Information
    Like other endothelin receptor antagonists, macitentan may have an adverse effect on spermatogenesis, including decreased sperm counts or oligospermia. Based on animal findings, macitentan may cause infertility in males of reproductive potential. It is not known whether the effects on fertility would be reversible. Counsel men about potential effects on fertility.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      oligospermia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      infertility
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    teratogenesis
    General Information
    Macitentan was consistently associated with teratogenesis when administered to animals. Macitentan was teratogenic in rabbits and rats at all doses tested. In both rabbits and rats, there were cardiovascular and mandibular arch fusion abnormalities. Administration of macitentan to female rats from late pregnancy through lactation caused reduced pup survival and impairment of the male fertility of the offspring at all dose levels tested. Effective contraception is required during and for 1 month after macitentan treatment for females of reproductive potential.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      teratogenesis
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    angioedema, pruritus, rash
    General Information
    Hypersensitivity reactions including angioedema, pruritus, and rash have been reported with macitentan during postmarketing experience.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    anemia
    General Information
    Decreases in hemoglobin concentration and hematocrit have occurred after administration of other endothelin receptor antagonists and were observed with macitentan in clinical trials. These decreases occurred early and stabilized thereafter, rarely requiring transfusion. In a placebo-controlled study, macitentan 10 mg was associated with a mean decrease in hemoglobin from baseline to up to 18 months of about 1 g/dL compared to no change in the placebo group. A decrease in hemoglobin to below 10 g/dL was reported in 8.7% of the macitentan 10 mg group and in 3.4% of the placebo group. Anemia was reported with macitentan in 13% of subjects in clinical trials. Monitor hemoglobin concentration prior to starting treatment with macitentan and repeat as clinically indicated during treatment.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    infection, influenza, nasal congestion, pharyngitis
    General Information
    Nasopharyngitis/pharyngitis (20%), bronchitis (12%), influenza (6%), and urinary tract infection (9%) were reported with macitentan in clinical trials. Nasal congestion has been reported with macitentan in postmarketing experience.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      influenza
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pharyngitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nasal congestion
      Severity
      Minor

Description
  Text
  Macitentan is an oral endothelin receptor antagonist indicated for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH, WHO Group I) to reduce the risks of disease progression and hospitalizations for PAH. Macitentan may cause embryo-fetal toxicity. For females of childbearing potential who are receiving macitentan; tadalafil, routine pregnancy testing and effective contraception are required. Additionally, like other endothelin receptor antagonists, macitentan may have an adverse effect on spermatogenesis and adversely affect male fertility.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Macitentan is a dual endothelin (ET) receptor antagonist. In persons with PAH, plasma ET-1 concentrations are elevated and involved in the production of vasoconstriction, fibrosis, proliferation, vascular hypertrophy, inflammation, and organ damage. Macitentan prevents the binding of ET-1 to ETA and ETB receptors on human pulmonary arterial smooth muscle cells and does so with high affinity and sustained occupancy. The active metabolite of macitentan is estimated to be approximately 20% as potent in antagonizing the ET receptors as macitentan in vitro. In clinical trials, subjects treated with macitentan monotherapy achieved a median reduction of 37% in pulmonary vascular resistance and an increase of 0.6 L/minute/m2 in cardiac index compared to placebo.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Peak plasma concentration of macitentan occurs approximately 8 hours after oral administration. Absolute oral bioavailability is unknown. Based on a study in healthy individuals, exposure to macitentan and its active metabolite are unchanged after a high-fat meal.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Exposure to macitentan decreased by 21%, 34%, and 6% and exposure to the active metabolite decreased by 20%, 25%, and 25% in subjects with mild, moderate, or severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class A, B, and C), respectively; however, these decreases are not considered clinically relevant.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Exposure to macitentan and its active metabolite was increased in subjects with severe renal impairment (CrCl 15 to 29 mL/minute) by 30% and 60%, respectively; however, these increases are not considered clinically relevant.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    There are no clinically relevant effects of age on the pharmacokinetics of macitentan and its active metabolite.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    There are no clinically relevant effects of sex on the pharmacokinetics of macitentan and its active metabolite.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    There are no clinically relevant effects of race on the pharmacokinetics of macitentan and its active metabolite.
  Text
  Macitentan is administered orally. Macitentan and its active metabolite are highly bound to plasma proteins (more than 99%), primarily to albumin and to a lesser extent to alpha-1-acid glycoprotein. In healthy subjects, the apparent Vd for macitentan and its active metabolite was 50 L and 40 L, respectively. Macitentan is metabolized primarily by oxidative depropylation of the sulfamide to form the pharmacologically active metabolite. This reaction is dependent on the cytochrome P450 (CYP) system, mainly CYP3A with minor contributions of CYP2C8, CYP2C9, and CYP2C19. At steady-state in persons with pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH), the systemic exposure to the active metabolite is 3-times the exposure to macitentan and is expected to contribute approximately 40% of the total pharmacologic activity. Approximately 50% of radiolabeled macitentan was eliminated in the urine, but none was in the form of unchanged drug or the active metabolite; about 24% was recovered from feces. The elimination half-life of macitentan and its active metabolite is 16 hours and 48 hours, respectively. The pharmacokinetics of macitentan are dose proportional over a range from 1 to 30 mg after once daily administration.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP3A
The metabolism of macitentan to its active metabolite is catalyzed mainly by CYP3A, with minor contributions by CYP2C8, CYP2C9, and CYP2C19.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
 
Hazardous Drugs Classification
NIOSH 2024 List: Table 2
Observe and exercise appropriate precautions for handling, preparation, administration, and disposal of hazardous drugs.
Use gloves to handle; double chemotherapy gloves and a protective gown are needed if manipulation is necessary. Cutting, crushing, or otherwise manipulating tablets/capsules will increase exposure.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Administer with or without food.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    10 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    10 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
