=== Quizartinib (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5475)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Quizartinib is an oral FLT3 tyrosine kinase receptor inhibitor indicated for the treatment of adult patients with newly diagnosed acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) that is FLT3 internal tandem duplication (ITD)-positive (as detected by an FDA-approved test), in combination with standard cytarabine...

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 53 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): cardiac arrest, qt prolongation, torsade de pointes, ventricular fibrillation, hyperkalemia, hypermagnesemia, hypernatremia, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, hypophosphatemia, candidiasis, infection, sepsis, anemia, lymphopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, keratitis, ocular inflammation, ocular irritation, ocular pain, ocular pruritus, xerophthalmia, enterocolitis, esophageal ulceration, oral ulceration, proctitis

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Avoid use in people who have conditions that may increase the risk of QT prolongation or torsade de pointes, including bradycardia, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, geriatric adults, females, structural abnormalities that interfere with electrical conduction (e.g., cardiomyopathy...

Brand Names
  - VANFLYTA

Dosage Forms
  - VANFLYTA 17.7mg Tablet
  - VANFLYTA 26.5mg Tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Related Indications
      Heading
      for the treatment of newly diagnosed FLT3 internal tandem duplication (ITD)-positive AML, in combination with standard cytarabine and anthracycline induction and cytarabine consolidation and as maintenance monotherapy following consolidation chemotherapy
      Routes
        Heading
        Oral dosage
        Route Age Groups
          Heading
          Adults
          Dosage Description
          Induction therapy: 35.4 mg orally once daily for 14 doses on days 8 to 21 (cycle 1) or days 6 to 19 (cycle 2) in combination with cytarabine and an anthracycline for up to 2 cycles. Consolidation therapy: 35.4 mg orally once daily for 14 doses on days 6 to 19 in combination with high-dose cytarabine for up to 4 cycles. Give maintenance therapy following consolidation chemotherapy once the absolute neutrophil count is more than 500 cells/mm3 and the platelet count is more than 50,000 cells/mm3 as follows: quizartinib 26.5 mg orally once daily for 14 doses on days 1 to 14 on cycle 1, then increase the dosage to 53 mg once daily starting on day 15 if the QTcF interval is 450 milliseconds (msec) or less; continue at the 26.5 mg orally once daily dosage if the QTcF interval was more than 500 msec during induction or consolidation. Continue maintenance therapy once daily until disease progression or for up to 36 cycles. Standard induction therapy consists of cytarabine 100 or 200 mg/m2 IV daily on days 1 to 7 plus daunorubicin 60 mg/m2 IV daily or idarubicin 12 mg/m2 daily on days 1, 2, and 3 (7+3); an optional second induction therapy consists of cytarabine 100 or 200 mg/m2 IV daily on days 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 plus daunorubicin 60 mg/m2 IV daily or idarubicin 12 mg/m2 daily on days 1 and 2 (5+2). Consolidation therapy consists of cytarabine 1.5 to 3 grams/m2 IV every 12 hours on days 1, 3, and 5. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. Therapy interruption, dose reduction, or permanent discontinuation may be necessary in patients who develop toxicity. Stop quizartinib 7 days prior to the start of a conditioning regimen in patients proceeding to a hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT). At a median follow-up time of 39.2 months, the median overall survival time was significantly improved in patients aged 18 to 75 years with newly diagnosed FLT3 ITD-positive AML who received quizartinib compared with placebo (31.9 months vs. 15.1 months; hazard ratio = 0.78; 95% CI, 0.62 to 0.98; p = 0.032) in combination standard induction and consolidation therapy in a randomized, double-blind, phase 3 (QuANTUM-First) trial (n = 539). In the quizartinib arm, 102 patients underwent an allogeneic HSCT (after induction, n = 98; after consolidation, n = 4).
    Routes
    Heading
    For the treatment of acute myelogenous leukemia (AML)

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    bradycardia, cardiac arrest, cardiac disease, cardiomyopathy, congenital long QT syndrome, coronary artery disease, females, geriatric, hypertension, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, hypothyroidism, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, ventricular arrhythmias
    General Information
    Quizartinib is contraindicated in people with baseline QT prolongation (defined as QTcF interval greater than 450 msec), congenital long QT syndrome, severe hypokalemia, and severe hypomagnesemia. Avoid use in people who have conditions that may increase the risk of QT prolongation or torsade de pointes, including bradycardia, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, geriatric adults, females, structural abnormalities that interfere with electrical conduction (e.g., cardiomyopathy, coronary artery disease, ischemic heart disease), or in those who have other additional risk factors for QT prolongation or torsade de pointes. The use of other medications that have been associated with QT prolongation or torsade de pointes may further increase risk. Quizartinib is also contraindicated in people with ventricular arrhythmias and torsade de pointes. Avoid use in people with uncontrolled or significant cardiac disease, recent myocardial infarction, heart failure, unstable angina, bradyarrhythmias, tachyarrhythmias, uncontrolled hypertension, high-degree atrioventricular block, severe aortic stenosis, or uncontrolled hypothyroidism. Torsade de pointes and cardiac arrest have been reported. Perform an electrocardiogram (ECG) prior to starting therapy and then once weekly (or more often as clinically indicated) during induction and consolidation. During maintenance therapy, perform an ECG prior to starting, once weekly for at least the first month following dose initiation and escalation, and as clinically indicated thereafter. More frequent ECG monitoring is required with concomitant use of drugs known to prolong the QT interval, in patients who are at significant risk of developing QT prolongation, and in patients who experience diarrhea or vomiting. Monitor electrolytes (e.g., potassium, magnesium) at baseline and periodically during therapy; correct abnormalities.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Quizartinib may cause fetal harm when administered during pregnancy, based on its mechanism of action and data from animal studies. Discuss the potential hazard to the fetus if a patient is or becomes pregnant while taking quizartinib. Although quizartinib has not been evaluated in pregnant patients, fetal toxicity occurred when pregnant rats received a quizartinib dose that resulted in exposures approximately 3-times the exposure observed in humans who received the maximum dose of 53 mg/day. In this animal study, fetal toxicity included structural abnormalities (i.e., anasarca and edema) and alterations to growth (i.e., lower fetal weights and skeletal ossification effects).
    Headline
    contraception requirements, infertility, male-mediated teratogenicity, pregnancy testing, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel patients about the reproductive risk and contraception requirements during quizartinib treatment. Pregnancy testing should be performed in patients of reproductive potential within 7 days prior to initiating therapy. These patients should use effective contraception during therapy and for 7 months after the last quizartinib dose. Due to the risk of male-mediated teratogenicity, patients should use effective contraception to avoid potential drug exposure in partners of reproductive potential during therapy and for 4 months after the last quizartinib dose. Quizartinib may cause infertility in males and females based on data from animal studies; effects on fertility appear to be reversible.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    It is not known if quizartinib or its metabolites are secreted in human milk or if it has effects on the breast-fed child or on milk production. Because there is a potential for adverse reactions in a breastfed child, patients should be advised against breast-feeding during quizartinib therapy and for 1 month after the last dose.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Quizartinib may cause fetal harm when administered during pregnancy, based on its mechanism of action and data from animal studies. Discuss the potential hazard to the fetus if a patient is or becomes pregnant while taking quizartinib. Although quizartinib has not been evaluated in pregnant patients, fetal toxicity occurred when pregnant rats received a quizartinib dose that resulted in exposures approximately 3-times the exposure observed in humans who received the maximum dose of 53 mg/day. In this animal study, fetal toxicity included structural abnormalities (i.e., anasarca and edema) and alterations to growth (i.e., lower fetal weights and skeletal ossification effects).
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    It is not known if quizartinib or its metabolites are secreted in human milk or if it has effects on the breast-fed child or on milk production. Because there is a potential for adverse reactions in a breastfed child, patients should be advised against breast-feeding during quizartinib therapy and for 1 month after the last dose.

Interactions
Abacavir; Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with quizartinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a BCRP substrate and quizartinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Adagrasib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of adagrasib with quizartinib due to the risk of increased quizartinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the dose of quizartinib to 26.5 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 53 mg, and to 17.7 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 35.4 mg or 26.5 mg; interrupt quizartinib therapy for the duration of the strong CYP3A inhibitor use for patients already taking a daily dose of 17.7 mg. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure of quizartinib by 94%.
Alfuzosin: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and alfuzosin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Alpelisib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alpelisib with quizartinib due to increased exposure to alpelisib and the risk of alpelisib-related toxicity. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor for alpelisib-related adverse reactions. Alpelisib is a BCRP substrate and quizartinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Amiodarone: (Major) Concomitant use of amiodarone and quizartinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Due to the extremely long half-life of amiodarone, a drug interaction is possible for days to weeks after drug discontinuation.
Amisulpride: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and amisulpride increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with quizartinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a BCRP substrate; quizartinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Amobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of barbiturates with quizartinib due to the risk of decreased quizartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of clarithromycin with quizartinib due to the risk of increased quizartinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the dose of quizartinib to 26.5 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 53 mg, and to 17.7 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 35.4 mg or 26.5 mg; interrupt quizartinib therapy for the duration of the strong CYP3A inhibitor use for patients already taking a daily dose of 17.7 mg. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure of quizartinib by 94%.
Anagrelide: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and anagrelide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of apalutamide with quizartinib due to the risk of decreased quizartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Apomorphine: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and apomorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
ARIPiprazole: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and aripiprazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Arsenic Trioxide: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and arsenic trioxide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Artemether; Lumefantrine: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and artemether increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and lumefantrine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Asenapine: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and asenapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of barbiturates with quizartinib due to the risk of decreased quizartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Atazanavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atazanavir with quizartinib due to the risk of increased quizartinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the dose of quizartinib to 26.5 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 53 mg, and to 17.7 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 35.4 mg or 26.5 mg; interrupt quizartinib therapy for the duration of the strong CYP3A inhibitor use for patients already taking a daily dose of 17.7 mg. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure of quizartinib by 94%.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atazanavir with quizartinib due to the risk of increased quizartinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the dose of quizartinib to 26.5 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 53 mg, and to 17.7 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 35.4 mg or 26.5 mg; interrupt quizartinib therapy for the duration of the strong CYP3A inhibitor use for patients already taking a daily dose of 17.7 mg. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure of quizartinib by 94%. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cobicistat with quizartinib due to the risk of increased quizartinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the dose of quizartinib to 26.5 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 53 mg, and to 17.7 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 35.4 mg or 26.5 mg; interrupt quizartinib therapy for the duration of the strong CYP3A inhibitor use for patients already taking a daily dose of 17.7 mg. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure of quizartinib by 94%.
Atomoxetine: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with quizartinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a BCRP substrate; quizartinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Azithromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and azithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Barbiturates: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of barbiturates with quizartinib due to the risk of decreased quizartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Bedaquiline: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and bedaquiline increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Bexarotene: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of bexarotene with quizartinib due to the risk of decreased quizartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and bexarotene is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased the quizartinib overall exposure by 90%.
Bictegravir; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with quizartinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a BCRP substrate and quizartinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Bismuth Subcitrate Potassium; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and metronidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and metronidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Bosentan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of bosentan with quizartinib due to the risk of decreased quizartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and bosentan is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased the quizartinib overall exposure by 90%.
Buprenorphine: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and buprenorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and buprenorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of barbiturates with quizartinib due to the risk of decreased quizartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of barbiturates with quizartinib due to the risk of decreased quizartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of barbiturates with quizartinib due to the risk of decreased quizartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of barbiturates with quizartinib due to the risk of decreased quizartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and rilpivirine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of carbamazepine with quizartinib due to the risk of decreased quizartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and carbamazepine is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Cenobamate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cenobamate with quizartinib due to the risk of decreased quizartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and cenobamate is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased the quizartinib overall exposure by 90%.
Ceritinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ceritinib with quizartinib due to the risk of increased quizartinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the dose of quizartinib to 26.5 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 53 mg, and to 17.7 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 35.4 mg or 26.5 mg; interrupt quizartinib therapy for the duration of the strong CYP3A inhibitor use for patients already taking a daily dose of 17.7 mg. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and ceritinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure of quizartinib by 94%.
Chloramphenicol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of chloramphenicol with quizartinib due to the risk of increased quizartinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the dose of quizartinib to 26.5 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 53 mg, and to 17.7 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 35.4 mg or 26.5 mg; interrupt quizartinib therapy for the duration of the strong CYP3A inhibitor use for patients already taking a daily dose of 17.7 mg. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure of quizartinib by 94%.
Chloroquine: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and chloroquine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
chlorproMAZINE: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and chlorpromazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ciprofloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and ciprofloxacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Cisapride: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of quizartinib and cisapride due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Citalopram: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and citalopram increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of clarithromycin with quizartinib due to the risk of increased quizartinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the dose of quizartinib to 26.5 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 53 mg, and to 17.7 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 35.4 mg or 26.5 mg; interrupt quizartinib therapy for the duration of the strong CYP3A inhibitor use for patients already taking a daily dose of 17.7 mg. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure of quizartinib by 94%.
Clofazimine: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and clofazimine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
cloZAPine: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and clozapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cobicistat with quizartinib due to the risk of increased quizartinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the dose of quizartinib to 26.5 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 53 mg, and to 17.7 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 35.4 mg or 26.5 mg; interrupt quizartinib therapy for the duration of the strong CYP3A inhibitor use for patients already taking a daily dose of 17.7 mg. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure of quizartinib by 94%.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and promethazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and promethazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Crizotinib: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and crizotinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dabrafenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dabrafenib with quizartinib due to the risk of decreased quizartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and dabrafenib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased the quizartinib overall exposure by 90%.
Darunavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of darunavir with quizartinib due to the risk of increased quizartinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the dose of quizartinib to 26.5 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 53 mg, and to 17.7 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 35.4 mg or 26.5 mg; interrupt quizartinib therapy for the duration of the strong CYP3A inhibitor use for patients already taking a daily dose of 17.7 mg. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure of quizartinib by 94%.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cobicistat with quizartinib due to the risk of increased quizartinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the dose of quizartinib to 26.5 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 53 mg, and to 17.7 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 35.4 mg or 26.5 mg; interrupt quizartinib therapy for the duration of the strong CYP3A inhibitor use for patients already taking a daily dose of 17.7 mg. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure of quizartinib by 94%. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of darunavir with quizartinib due to the risk of increased quizartinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the dose of quizartinib to 26.5 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 53 mg, and to 17.7 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 35.4 mg or 26.5 mg; interrupt quizartinib therapy for the duration of the strong CYP3A inhibitor use for patients already taking a daily dose of 17.7 mg. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure of quizartinib by 94%.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cobicistat with quizartinib due to the risk of increased quizartinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the dose of quizartinib to 26.5 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 53 mg, and to 17.7 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 35.4 mg or 26.5 mg; interrupt quizartinib therapy for the duration of the strong CYP3A inhibitor use for patients already taking a daily dose of 17.7 mg. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure of quizartinib by 94%. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of darunavir with quizartinib due to the risk of increased quizartinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the dose of quizartinib to 26.5 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 53 mg, and to 17.7 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 35.4 mg or 26.5 mg; interrupt quizartinib therapy for the duration of the strong CYP3A inhibitor use for patients already taking a daily dose of 17.7 mg. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure of quizartinib by 94%. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with quizartinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a BCRP substrate and quizartinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Dasatinib: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and dasatinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Degarelix: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Desflurane: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Major) Concomitant use of dexmedetomidine and quizartinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and quinidine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Disopyramide: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and disopyramide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dofetilide: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and dofetilide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dolutegravir: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with quizartinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a BCRP substrate and quizartinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with quizartinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a BCRP substrate and quizartinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and rilpivirine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose. (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with quizartinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a BCRP substrate and quizartinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Donepezil: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and donepezil increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and donepezil increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with quizartinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP substrate and quizartinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Dordaviprone: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and quizartinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dronedarone: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of quizartinib and dronedarone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
droPERidol: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and droperidol increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Efavirenz: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of efavirenz with quizartinib due to the risk of decreased quizartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Concomitant use may also increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate, efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration decreased the overall exposure of quizartinib by 90%.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of efavirenz with quizartinib due to the risk of decreased quizartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Concomitant use may also increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate, efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration decreased the overall exposure of quizartinib by 90%. (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with quizartinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP substrate and quizartinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of efavirenz with quizartinib due to the risk of decreased quizartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Concomitant use may also increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate, efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration decreased the overall exposure of quizartinib by 90%. (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with quizartinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP substrate and quizartinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Elagolix: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elagolix with quizartinib due to the risk of decreased quizartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and elagolix is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased the quizartinib overall exposure by 90%.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elagolix with quizartinib due to the risk of decreased quizartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and elagolix is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased the quizartinib overall exposure by 90%.
Eliglustat: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and eliglustat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cobicistat with quizartinib due to the risk of increased quizartinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the dose of quizartinib to 26.5 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 53 mg, and to 17.7 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 35.4 mg or 26.5 mg; interrupt quizartinib therapy for the duration of the strong CYP3A inhibitor use for patients already taking a daily dose of 17.7 mg. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure of quizartinib by 94%. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with quizartinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a BCRP substrate and quizartinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cobicistat with quizartinib due to the risk of increased quizartinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the dose of quizartinib to 26.5 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 53 mg, and to 17.7 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 35.4 mg or 26.5 mg; interrupt quizartinib therapy for the duration of the strong CYP3A inhibitor use for patients already taking a daily dose of 17.7 mg. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure of quizartinib by 94%. (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with quizartinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP substrate and quizartinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and rilpivirine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with quizartinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a BCRP substrate and quizartinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and rilpivirine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose. (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with quizartinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP substrate and quizartinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with quizartinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a BCRP substrate and quizartinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with quizartinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP substrate and quizartinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of encorafenib with quizartinib due to the risk for decreased quizartinib exposure and efficacy and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate, encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Ensitrelvir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensitrelvir with quizartinib due to the risk of increased quizartinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the dose of quizartinib to 26.5 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 53 mg, and to 17.7 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 35.4 mg or 26.5 mg; interrupt quizartinib therapy for the duration of the strong CYP3A inhibitor use for patients already taking a daily dose of 17.7 mg. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure of quizartinib by 94%.
Entrectinib: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and entrectinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of enzalutamide with quizartinib due to the risk of decreased quizartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer.
eriBULin: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Erythromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and erythromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Escitalopram: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and escitalopram increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Eslicarbazepine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of eslicarbazepine with quizartinib due to the risk of decreased quizartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and eslicarbazepine is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased the quizartinib overall exposure by 90%.
Etrasimod: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and quizartinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Etravirine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etravirine with quizartinib due to the risk of decreased quizartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and etravirine is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased the quizartinib overall exposure by 90%.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of quizartinib and fexinidazole due to the risk for decreased quizartinib exposure and efficacy and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate, fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased the quizartinib overall exposure by 90%.
Fingolimod: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and fingolimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Flecainide: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and flecainide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fluconazole: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and fluconazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
FLUoxetine: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and fluoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
fluvoxaMINE: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and fluvoxamine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Foscarnet: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and foscarnet increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosfomycin (injectable): (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and quizartinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosfomycin: (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and quizartinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fosphenytoin with quizartinib due to the risk of decreased quizartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and fosphenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Fostemsavir: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and fostemsavir increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose.
Gemifloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and gemifloxacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Gemtuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and gemtuzumab ozogamicin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Gepirone: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and quizartinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Gepotidacin: (Major) Concomitant use of gepotidacin and quizartinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Gilteritinib: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and gilteritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Givinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of givinostat and quizartinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with givinostat is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 5 times the maximum recommended dose.
Glasdegib: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and glasdegib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Glecaprevir; Pibrentasvir: (Moderate) Caution is advised with coadministration of glecaprevir and quizartinib as increased plasma concentrations of glecaprevir may occur resulting in increased risk of glecaprevir-related adverse events. Glecaprevir is a substrate of BCRP and quizartinib is a BCRP inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in pibrentasvir-related adverse effects if concomitant use of quizartinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase pibrentasvir exposure. Pibrentasvir is a substrate of BCRP and quizartinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Goserelin: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., goserelin) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Granisetron: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and granisetron increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Halogenated Anesthetics: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Haloperidol: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and haloperidol increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The intravenous route may carry a higher risk for haloperidol-induced QT/QTc prolongation than other routes of administration.
Histrelin: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., histrelin) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Hydroxychloroquine: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and hydroxychloroquine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
hydrOXYzine: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and hydroxyzine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ibutilide: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and ibutilide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Idelalisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of idelalisib with quizartinib due to the risk of increased quizartinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the dose of quizartinib to 26.5 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 53 mg, and to 17.7 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 35.4 mg or 26.5 mg; interrupt quizartinib therapy for the duration of the strong CYP3A inhibitor use for patients already taking a daily dose of 17.7 mg. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and idelalisib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure of quizartinib by 94%.
Iloperidone: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and iloperidone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Inotuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and inotuzumab ozogamicin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Isoflurane: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Itraconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of itraconazole with quizartinib due to the risk of increased quizartinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the dose of quizartinib to 26.5 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 53 mg, and to 17.7 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 35.4 mg or 26.5 mg; interrupt quizartinib therapy for the duration of the strong CYP3A inhibitor use for patients already taking a daily dose of 17.7 mg. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and itraconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure of quizartinib by 94%.
Ivosidenib: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and ivosidenib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ketoconazole and quizartinib is contraindicated due to the risk for increase quizartinib exposure and QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) per the manufacturer of ketoconazole. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the dose of quizartinib to 26.5 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 53 mg, and to 17.7 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 35.4 mg or 26.5 mg; interrupt quizartinib therapy for the duration of ketoconazole use for patients already taking a daily dose of 17.7 mg. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate, ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration increased the overall exposure of quizartinib by 94%.
lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with quizartinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP substrate and quizartinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of clarithromycin with quizartinib due to the risk of increased quizartinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the dose of quizartinib to 26.5 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 53 mg, and to 17.7 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 35.4 mg or 26.5 mg; interrupt quizartinib therapy for the duration of the strong CYP3A inhibitor use for patients already taking a daily dose of 17.7 mg. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure of quizartinib by 94%.
Lapatinib: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and lapatinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Lefamulin: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and lefamulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Lenvatinib: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and lenvatinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Leuprolide: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., leuprolide) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
levoFLOXacin: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and levofloxacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Levoketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ketoconazole and quizartinib is contraindicated due to the risk for increase quizartinib exposure and QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) per the manufacturer of ketoconazole. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the dose of quizartinib to 26.5 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 53 mg, and to 17.7 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 35.4 mg or 26.5 mg; interrupt quizartinib therapy for the duration of ketoconazole use for patients already taking a daily dose of 17.7 mg. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate, ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration increased the overall exposure of quizartinib by 94%.
Lithium: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and lithium increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Lofexidine: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and lofexidine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lonafarnib with quizartinib due to the risk of increased quizartinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the dose of quizartinib to 26.5 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 53 mg, and to 17.7 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 35.4 mg or 26.5 mg; interrupt quizartinib therapy for the duration of the strong CYP3A inhibitor use for patients already taking a daily dose of 17.7 mg. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure of quizartinib by 94%.
Loperamide: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and loperamide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and loperamide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ritonavir with quizartinib due to the risk of increased quizartinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the dose of quizartinib to 26.5 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 53 mg, and to 17.7 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 35.4 mg or 26.5 mg; interrupt quizartinib therapy for the duration of the strong CYP3A inhibitor use for patients already taking a daily dose of 17.7 mg. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure of quizartinib by 94%. (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and lopinavir increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Lorlatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lorlatinib with quizartinib due to the risk of decreased quizartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased the quizartinib overall exposure by 90%.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lumacaftor; ivacaftor with quizartinib due to the risk of decreased quizartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lumacaftor; ivacaftor with quizartinib due to the risk of decreased quizartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Macimorelin: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and macimorelin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Mavorixafor: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and quizartinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Mefloquine: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and mefloquine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Methadone: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and methadone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Methohexital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of barbiturates with quizartinib due to the risk of decreased quizartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
metroNIDAZOLE: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and metronidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Midostaurin: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and midostaurin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mifepristone with quizartinib due to the risk of increased quizartinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the dose of quizartinib to 26.5 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 53 mg, and to 17.7 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 35.4 mg or 26.5 mg; interrupt quizartinib therapy for the duration of the strong CYP3A inhibitor use for patients already taking a daily dose of 17.7 mg. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and mifepristone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure of quizartinib by 94%.
Mirtazapine: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and mirtazapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Mitotane: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mitotane with quizartinib due to the risk of decreased quizartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Mobocertinib: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and mobocertinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Moxifloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and moxifloxacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Nafcillin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of nafcillin with quizartinib due to the risk of decreased quizartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and nafcillin is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased the quizartinib overall exposure by 90%.
Nefazodone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of nefazodone with quizartinib due to the risk of increased quizartinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the dose of quizartinib to 26.5 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 53 mg, and to 17.7 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 35.4 mg or 26.5 mg; interrupt quizartinib therapy for the duration of the strong CYP3A inhibitor use for patients already taking a daily dose of 17.7 mg. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and nefazodone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure of quizartinib by 94%.
Nelfinavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of nelfinavir with quizartinib due to the risk of increased quizartinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the dose of quizartinib to 26.5 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 53 mg, and to 17.7 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 35.4 mg or 26.5 mg; interrupt quizartinib therapy for the duration of the strong CYP3A inhibitor use for patients already taking a daily dose of 17.7 mg. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and nelfinavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure of quizartinib by 94%.
Nilotinib: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and nilotinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ritonavir with quizartinib due to the risk of increased quizartinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the dose of quizartinib to 26.5 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 53 mg, and to 17.7 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 35.4 mg or 26.5 mg; interrupt quizartinib therapy for the duration of the strong CYP3A inhibitor use for patients already taking a daily dose of 17.7 mg. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure of quizartinib by 94%.
Ofloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and ofloxacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
OLANZapine: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and olanzapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and fluoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and olanzapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and olanzapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rifabutin with quizartinib due to the risk of decreased quizartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased the quizartinib overall exposure by 90%.
Ondansetron: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and ondansetron increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Do not exceed 16 mg of IV ondansetron in a single dose; the degree of QT prolongation associated with ondansetron significantly increases above this dose.
Osilodrostat: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and osilodrostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Osimertinib: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and osimertinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Oxaliplatin: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and oxaliplatin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ozanimod: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and ozanimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ozanimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Pacritinib: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and pacritinib may decrease quizartinib exposure and efficacy and increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate, pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased the quizartinib overall exposure by 90%.
Paliperidone: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and paliperidone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Panobinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and panobinostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Pasireotide: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and pasireotide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pazopanib and quizartinib due to the potential for increased pazopanib exposure. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Pazopanib is a BCRP substrate, quizartinib is a BCRP inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Pentamidine: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and systemic pentamidine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
PENTobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of barbiturates with quizartinib due to the risk of decreased quizartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Perphenazine: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of quizartinib and perphenazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of quizartinib and perphenazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Pexidartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of pexidartinib with quizartinib due to the risk of decreased quizartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and pexidartinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased the quizartinib overall exposure by 90%.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of barbiturates with quizartinib due to the risk of decreased quizartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of barbiturates with quizartinib due to the risk of decreased quizartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Phenytoin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of phenytoin with quizartinib due to the risk of decreased quizartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Pimavanserin: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and pimavanserin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Pimozide: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of quizartinib and pimozide due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Pitolisant: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and pitolisant increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ponesimod: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and ponesimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ponesimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Posaconazole: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of posaconazole and quizartinib is contraindicated due to the risk for increase quizartinib exposure and QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) per the manufacturer of posaconazole. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the dose of quizartinib to 26.5 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 53 mg, and to 17.7 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 35.4 mg or 26.5 mg; interrupt quizartinib therapy for the duration of posaconazole use for patients already taking a daily dose of 17.7 mg. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate, posaconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure of quizartinib by 94%.
Primaquine: (Major) Concomitant use of primaquine and quizartinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Primidone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of barbiturates with quizartinib due to the risk of decreased quizartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Procainamide: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and procainamide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and promethazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and promethazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and promethazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Propafenone: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and propafenone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
QUEtiapine: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and quetiapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
quiNIDine: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and quinidine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
quiNINE: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and quinine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ranolazine: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and ranolazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Relacorilant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of relacorilant with quizartinib due to the risk of increased quizartinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the dose of quizartinib to 26.5 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 53 mg, and to 17.7 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 35.4 mg or 26.5 mg; interrupt quizartinib therapy for the duration of the strong CYP3A inhibitor use for patients already taking a daily dose of 17.7 mg. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure of quizartinib by 94%.
Relugolix: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of repotrectinib with quizartinib due to the risk of decreased quizartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased the quizartinib overall exposure by 90%.
Revumenib: (Major) Concomitant use of revumenib and quizartinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ribociclib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ribociclib with quizartinib due to the risk of increased quizartinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the dose of quizartinib to 26.5 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 53 mg, and to 17.7 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 35.4 mg or 26.5 mg; interrupt quizartinib therapy for the duration of the strong CYP3A inhibitor use for patients already taking a daily dose of 17.7 mg. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure of quizartinib by 94%.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ribociclib with quizartinib due to the risk of increased quizartinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the dose of quizartinib to 26.5 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 53 mg, and to 17.7 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 35.4 mg or 26.5 mg; interrupt quizartinib therapy for the duration of the strong CYP3A inhibitor use for patients already taking a daily dose of 17.7 mg. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure of quizartinib by 94%.
Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rifabutin with quizartinib due to the risk of decreased quizartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased the quizartinib overall exposure by 90%.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rifampin with quizartinib due to the risk of decreased quizartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rifapentine with quizartinib due to the risk of decreased quizartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Rilpivirine: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and rilpivirine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose.
risperiDONE: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and risperidone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ritonavir with quizartinib due to the risk of increased quizartinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the dose of quizartinib to 26.5 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 53 mg, and to 17.7 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 35.4 mg or 26.5 mg; interrupt quizartinib therapy for the duration of the strong CYP3A inhibitor use for patients already taking a daily dose of 17.7 mg. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure of quizartinib by 94%.
romiDEPsin: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and romidepsin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Rosuvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with quizartinib. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a BCRP substrate and quizartinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Rosuvastatin; Ezetimibe: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with quizartinib. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a BCRP substrate and quizartinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Saquinavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of saquinavir with quizartinib due to the risk of increased quizartinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the dose of quizartinib to 26.5 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 53 mg, and to 17.7 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 35.4 mg or 26.5 mg; interrupt quizartinib therapy for the duration of the strong CYP3A inhibitor use for patients already taking a daily dose of 17.7 mg. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and saquinavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure of quizartinib by 94%.
Secobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of barbiturates with quizartinib due to the risk of decreased quizartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Selpercatinib: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and selpercatinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Sertraline: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and sertraline increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with sertraline is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Sevoflurane: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Siponimod: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and siponimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Solifenacin: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and solifenacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
SORAfenib: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and sorafenib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Sotalol: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and sotalol increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Sotorasib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sotorasib with quizartinib due to the risk of decreased quizartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and sotorasib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased the quizartinib overall exposure by 90%.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of St. John's wort with quizartinib due to the risk of decreased quizartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and St. John's wort is a strong CYP3A inducer.
SUNItinib: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and sunitinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tacrolimus: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and tacrolimus increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Talazoparib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in talazoparib-related adverse reactions if concomitant use of quizartinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase talazoparib exposure. Talazoparib is a BCRP substrate and quizartinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Taletrectinib: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and quizartinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tamoxifen: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and tamoxifen increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Telavancin: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and telavancin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with quizartinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a BCRP substrate and quizartinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with quizartinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP substrate and quizartinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Tetrabenazine: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and tetrabenazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Thioridazine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of quizartinib and thioridazine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Tipranavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tipranavir with quizartinib due to the risk of increased quizartinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the dose of quizartinib to 26.5 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 53 mg, and to 17.7 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 35.4 mg or 26.5 mg; interrupt quizartinib therapy for the duration of the strong CYP3A inhibitor use for patients already taking a daily dose of 17.7 mg. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and tipranavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure of quizartinib by 94%.
Tolterodine: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and tolterodine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The risk for tolterodine-associated QT/QTc prolongation may be increased in poor CYP2D6 metabolizers.
Topotecan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of quizartinib with oral topotecan due to increased topotecan exposure; quizartinib may be administered with intravenous topotecan. Coadministration increases the risk of topotecan-related adverse reactions. Oral topotecan is a BCRP substrate and quizartinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Toremifene: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and toremifene increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
traZODone: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and trazodone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Triclabendazole: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and triclabendazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Triptorelin: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., triptorelin) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tucatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tucatinib with quizartinib due to the risk of increased quizartinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the dose of quizartinib to 26.5 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 53 mg, and to 17.7 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 35.4 mg or 26.5 mg; interrupt quizartinib therapy for the duration of the strong CYP3A inhibitor use for patients already taking a daily dose of 17.7 mg. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure of quizartinib by 94%.
Ubrogepant: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with quizartinib. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a BCRP substrate and quizartinib is a BCRP inhibitor.
Vandetanib: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and vandetanib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Vardenafil: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and vardenafil increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Vemurafenib: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and vemurafenib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Venlafaxine: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and venlafaxine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Vepdegestrant: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and quizartinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Voclosporin: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and voclosporin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with voclosporin is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of clarithromycin with quizartinib due to the risk of increased quizartinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the dose of quizartinib to 26.5 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 53 mg, and to 17.7 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 35.4 mg or 26.5 mg; interrupt quizartinib therapy for the duration of the strong CYP3A inhibitor use for patients already taking a daily dose of 17.7 mg. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure of quizartinib by 94%.
Voriconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of voriconazole with quizartinib due to the risk of increased quizartinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the dose of quizartinib to 26.5 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 53 mg, and to 17.7 mg for patients taking a daily dose of 35.4 mg or 26.5 mg; interrupt quizartinib therapy for the duration of the strong CYP3A inhibitor use for patients already taking a daily dose of 17.7 mg. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and voriconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure of quizartinib by 94%.
Vorinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and vorinostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Zidesamtinib: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and quizartinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ziftomenib: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and quizartinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ziprasidone: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and ziprasidone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    cardiac arrest, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, ventricular fibrillation
    General Information
    QT interval prolongation occurs with quizartinib therapy via an inhibition of the slow delayed rectifier potassium current and is dose- and concentration-dependent. Therapy interruption, dose reduction, or permanent discontinuation may be necessary in patients who develop QT prolongation. Perform an electrocardiogram (ECG) prior to starting therapy and then once weekly (or more often as clinically indicated) during quizartinib induction and consolidation therapy. During maintenance therapy, perform ECGs prior to starting, once weekly for at least the first month following dose initiation and escalation, and as clinically indicated thereafter. Do not escalate the quizartinib maintenance dose if the QTcF interval is more than 450 milliseconds (msec). Torsade de pointes (0.2%), cardiac arrest (0.6%) including fatal cardiac arrest (0.4%), and ventricular fibrillation (0.1%) were reported in patients with acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) who received quizartinib in clinical trials (n = 1,081). Most severe cardiac arrhythmias occurred during induction therapy. QT prolongation on ECG (14% vs. 4.1%; grade 3 or 4, 3% vs. 1.1%) and increased creatine phosphokinase (CPK) levels (26% vs. 7%; grade 3 or 4, 2.5% vs. 0.5%) occurred more often in patients with AML who received quizartinib (n = 265) compared with placebo (n = 268) in combination with standard induction and consolidation chemotherapy in a randomized trial. Additionally, QTcF interval increased to more than 500 msec (2.3%), QTcF interval increased by more than 60 msec from baseline (10%), and fatal ventricular dysfunction (n = 1; 0.4%) and cardiac arrest (n = 1; 0.4%) were reported in quizartinib-treated patients in this trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cardiac arrest
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      QT prolongation
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      torsade de pointes
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      ventricular fibrillation
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hyperkalemia, hypermagnesemia, hypernatremia, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, hypophosphatemia
    General Information
    Correct electrolyte abnormalities prior to and during therapy, especially low potassium and magnesium levels. Increased potassium level/hyperkalemia (15% vs. 11%; grade 3 or 4, 1.2% vs. 0.8%), decreased potassium level/hypokalemia (59% vs. 56%; grade 3 or 4, 22% vs. 18%), decreased phosphorus level/hypophosphatemia (52% vs. 48%; grade 3 or 4, 22% vs. 19%), decreased magnesium level/hypomagnesemia (44% vs. 42%; grade 3 or 4, 2% vs. 1.1%), decreased calcium level/hypocalcemia (33% vs. 27%; grade 3 or 4, 2.4% vs. 1.6%), increased magnesium level/hypermagnesemia (14% vs. 9%; grade 3 or 4, 2.8% vs. 1.2%), and increased sodium level/hypernatremia (13% vs. 10%; grade 3 or 4, 0% and 0.4%) occurred more often in patients with acute myelogenous leukemia who received quizartinib (n = 265) compared with placebo (n = 268) in combination with standard induction and consolidation chemotherapy in a randomized trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperkalemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypermagnesemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypernatremia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypocalcemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypokalemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypomagnesemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypophosphatemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hypoalbuminemia
    General Information
    Hypoalbuminemia was reported in 53% (grade 3 or 4, 1.6%) of patients with acute myelogenous leukemia who received quizartinib (n = 265) compared with 45% (grade 3 or 4, 4.3%) of patients who received placebo (n = 268) in combination with standard induction and consolidation chemotherapy in a randomized trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypoalbuminemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    candidiasis, infection, sepsis
    General Information
    Sepsis (30% vs. 26%; grade 3 or 4, 19% and 20%), upper respiratory tract infection (21% vs. 12%; grade 3 or 4, 2.6% and 3%), fungal infection (16% vs. 10%; grade 3 or 4, 6% vs. 3%), and herpes virus infection (14% vs. 8%; grade 3 or 4, 2.6% vs. 1.9%) occurred more often in patients with acute myelogenous leukemia who received quizartinib (n = 265) compared with placebo (n = 268) in combination with standard induction and consolidation chemotherapy in a randomized trial. Additionally, fatal sepsis (5%), fungal infection (0.8%), febrile neutropenia (0.4%), and pneumonia (0.4%) were reported in quizartinib-treated patients in this trial. The term sepsis included bacteremia, neutropenic sepsis, and septic shock; the term fungal infection included candidiasis and tinea cruris.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      candidiasis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      sepsis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    cerebral edema
    General Information
    Fatal cerebral edema was reported in 0.8% of patients with acute myelogenous leukemia who received quizartinib in combination with standard induction and consolidation chemotherapy (n = 265) in a randomized trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cerebral edema
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    pulmonary embolism, stroke
    General Information
    Fatal cerebral infarction/stroke (n = 1; 0.4%) and pulmonary embolism (n = 1; 0.4%) occurred in patients with acute myelogenous leukemia who received quizartinib in combination with standard induction and consolidation chemotherapy (n = 265) in a randomized trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      pulmonary embolism
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      stroke
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS)
    General Information
    Fatal acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) was reported in 1 patient (0.4%) with acute myelogenous leukemia who received quizartinib in combination with standard induction and consolidation chemotherapy (n = 265) in a randomized trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS)
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes
    General Information
    Hypertransaminasemia (19% vs. 14%; grade 3 or 4, 7% vs. 6%) and increased alkaline phosphatase level (51% vs. 47%; grade 3 or 4, 1.6% and 1.9%) occurred more often in patients with acute myelogenous leukemia who received quizartinib (n = 265) compared with placebo (n = 268) in combination with standard induction and consolidation chemotherapy in a randomized trial. The term hypertransaminasemia included elevated hepatic enzymes, increased ALT and AST levels, and increased transaminase levels.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    anemia, lymphopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia
    General Information
    Febrile neutropenia (44% vs. 42%; grade 3 or 4, 43% vs. 41%), neutropenia (29% vs. 14%; grade 3 or 4, 26% vs. 12%), thrombocytopenia (18% vs. 13%; grade 3 or 4, 13% and 12%), anemia (11% vs. 7%; grade 3 or 4, 6% vs. 5%), and decreased lymphocyte count/lymphopenia (60% vs. 55%; grade 3 or 4, 57% vs. 51%) occurred more often in patients with acute myelogenous leukemia who received quizartinib (n = 265) compared with placebo (n = 268) in combination with standard induction and consolidation chemotherapy in a randomized trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      lymphopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      neutropenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    keratitis, ocular inflammation, ocular irritation, ocular pain, ocular pruritus, xerophthalmia
    General Information
    Ocular irritation was reported in 11% of patients with acute myelogenous leukemia who received quizartinib (n = 265) compared with 7% of patients who received placebo (n = 268) in combination with standard induction and consolidation chemotherapy in a randomized trial. The term ocular irritation included dry eye/xerophthalmia, ocular inflammation, ocular pain, ocular pruritus, foreign body sensation in eyes, keratitis, and ulcerative keratitis.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      keratitis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      ocular inflammation
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      ocular irritation
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      ocular pain
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      ocular pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      xerophthalmia
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    epistaxis
    General Information
    Epistaxis was reported in 15% (grade 3 or 4, 1.1%) of patients with acute myelogenous leukemia who received quizartinib (n = 265) compared with 11% (grade 3 or 4, 0.4%) of patients who received placebo (n = 268) in combination with standard induction and consolidation chemotherapy in a randomized trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      epistaxis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    acute febrile neutrophilic dermatosis
    General Information
    Acute febrile neutrophilic dermatosis was reported in 3% of patients with relapsed or refractory acute myelogenous leukemia (off-label indication).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      acute febrile neutrophilic dermatosis
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    differentiation syndrome
    General Information
    Differentiation syndrome was reported in 5% of patients with relapsed or refractory acute myelogenous leukemia (off-label indication).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      differentiation syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    insomnia
    General Information
    Insomnia was reported in 14% of patients with acute myelogenous leukemia who received quizartinib (n = 265) compared with 11% of patients who received placebo (n = 268) in combination with standard induction and consolidation chemotherapy in a randomized trial.[
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    headache
    General Information
    Headache was reported in 28% of patients with acute myelogenous leukemia who received quizartinib (n = 265) compared with 20% (grade 3 or 4, 0.7%) of patients who received placebo (n = 268) in combination with standard induction and consolidation chemotherapy in a randomized trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    abdominal pain, anorexia, diarrhea, dyspepsia, enterocolitis, esophageal ulceration, esophagitis, nausea, oral ulceration, proctitis, stomatitis, vomiting
    General Information
    Diarrhea (42% vs. 39%; grade 3 or 4, 8% and 8%), mucositis (38% vs. 33%; grade 3 or 4, 5% vs. 4.1%), nausea (34% vs. 31%; grade 3 or 4, 1.5% and 1.9%), abdominal pain (30% vs. 22%; grade 3 or 4, 2.3% vs. 1.1%), vomiting (25% vs. 20%; grade 3 or 4, 0% and 1.5%), dyspepsia (11% vs. 9%; grade 3 or 4, 0.4% and 0.7%), and decreased appetite/anorexia (17% vs. 13%; grade 3 or 4, 4.9% vs.1.9 %) occurred more often in patients with acute myelogenous leukemia who received quizartinib (n = 265) compared with placebo (n = 268) in combination with standard induction and consolidation chemotherapy in a randomized trial. The term diarrhea included enteritis, enterocolitis, gastroenteritis, colitis, and neutropenic colitis. The term mucositis included stomatitis, oral ulceration/pain/blistering, mucosal inflammation/edema, esophageal ulceration/pain, esophagitis, pharyngeal inflammation, oropharyngeal pain, laryngeal inflammation/pain, anal inflammation/pain/ulcer, proctalgia, proctitis, and vaginal ulceration.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspepsia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      enterocolitis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      esophageal ulceration
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      esophagitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      oral ulceration
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      proctitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      stomatitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    infertility
    General Information
    Based on animal studies, quizartinib may cause female and male infertility. It is not known if infertility is reversible.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infertility
      Severity
      Moderate

Description
  Text
  Quizartinib is an oral FLT3 tyrosine kinase receptor inhibitor indicated for the treatment of adult patients with newly diagnosed acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) that is FLT3 internal tandem duplication (ITD)-positive (as detected by an FDA-approved test), in combination with standard cytarabine and anthracycline induction, cytarabine consolidation, and as maintenance monotherapy following consolidation. It is not indicated for maintenance monotherapy following allogeneic hematopoietic stem-cell transplant. Quizartinib has a black box warning for QT prolongation, torsades de points, and cardiac arrest.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Quizartinib is a selective small molecule that inhibits the FMS-like tyrosine kinase 3 (FLT3) receptor. Both quizartinib and its major active metabolite, AC886, bind to the ATP binding domain of FLT3 which prevents autophosphorylation of the receptor causing downstream FLT3 receptor signaling inhibition and blocks FLT3-ITD-dependent cell proliferation. Quizartinib demonstrated antitumor activity of FLT3-ITD-dependent leukemia in a mouse model.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    In healthy subjects, the mean absolute bioavailability of quizartinib tablets was 71% (+/- 7%) and the Tmax values were 4 (range, 2 to 8) hours and 5 to 6 (range, 4 to 120) hours for quizartinib and AC886, respectively, following a dose taken on an empty stomach. Taking quizartinib with a high-fat, high-calorie meal had no clinically significant impact on its pharmacokinetic parameters compared with the fasted state. In patients with acute myelogenous leukemia, quizartinib exposure (Cmax and AUC) increases proportionally over the dosage range of 17.7 mg to 53 mg; steady-state quizartinib concentrations are achieved by day 15 following once daily dosing. Following 35.4 mg/day induction therapy, 35.4 mg/day consolidation therapy, and 54 mg/day maintenance therapy, steady-state quizartinib Cmax values were 140 (coefficient of variation (CV), 71%), 204 (CV, 64%), and 529 (CV, 60%) nanograms (ng)/mL, respectively, and steady-state AUC values were 2,680 (CV, 85%), 3,930 (CV, 78%), and 10,200 (CV, 75%) ng x hour/mL, respectively. The mean accumulation ratio during quizartinib maintenance therapy was 5.4 (+/- 4.4).
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Mild (total bilirubin at the ULN or less and AST more than ULN OR total bilirubin more than 1 to 1.5 times the ULN and any AST) or moderate (total bilirubin more than 1.5 to 3 times the ULN and any AST) hepatic impairment had no clinically significant impact on the exposure of quizartinib or its active metabolite, AC886. It is not known if severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C OR total bilirubin more than 3 times the ULN and any AST) impacts the pharmacokinetic parameters of quizartinib or AC886.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Mild or moderate renal impairment (CrCl 30 to 89 mL/min) had no clinically significant impact on the exposure of quizartinib or its active metabolite, AC886. It is not known if severe renal impairment (CrCl less than 30 mL/min) impacts the pharmacokinetic parameters of quizartinib or AC886.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Age (range, 18 to 91 years) has no clinically significant impact on the exposure of quizartinib or its active metabolite, AC886.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    Sex has no clinically significant impact on the exposure of quizartinib or its active metabolite, AC886.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    Race (White patients, 65%; Asian patients, 18%; Black or African American patients, 9%) has no clinically significant impact on the exposure of quizartinib or its active metabolite, AC886.
    Name
    Obesity
    Description
    Weight (range, 37 to 153 kg) has no clinically significant impact on the exposure of quizartinib or its active metabolite, AC886.
  Text
  Quizartinib is administered orally. Both quizartinib and its major active metabolite, AC886, are 99% or more bound to plasma proteins in vitro, with blood to plasma ratios of 0.79 to 1.3 and 1.36 to 3.19, respectively. In healthy subjects who received quizartinib, the steady-state Vd was 275 L (coefficient of variation (CV), 17%) and the total body clearance was approximately 2.23 L/hour (CV, 29%). During maintenance therapy, the mean effective half-lives of quizartinib and AC886 were 81 (+/- 73) and 136 (+/- 113) hours, respectively, in patients with newly diagnosed AML. Quizartinib is primarily metabolized via oxidation by CYP3A4/5; AC886 is formed and metabolized by CYP3A4/5. Following a single radiolabeled dose of quizartinib 53 mg in healthy patients, 76.3% and 1.64% of the total radioactivity was recovered in the feces and urine, respectively.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A, P-gp, BCRP
Quizartinib and AC886 are substrates of CYP3A4/5. In vitro, quizartinib is a P-gp substrate, as well as an inhibitor of UGT1A1 and BCRP. Coadministration of quizartinib with an UGT1A1 substrate (raltegravir) did not significantly impact the pharmacokinetic parameters of the UGT1A1 substrate in a drug interaction study. Quizartinib is expected to inhibit BCRP at the recommended dosage. AC886 is a BCRP substrate in vitro.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Take quizartinib orally with or without food at approximately the same time each day.
Swallow tablets whole; do not cut, crush, or chew the tablets.
If a dose is missed or not taken at the usual time, take the dose as soon as possible on the same day and return to the usual schedule the next day; do not take 2 doses on the same day.
If a dose is vomited, do not take a replacement dose; return to the usual schedule the next day.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    53 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    53 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy not established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy not established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy not established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  No quizartinib dosage adjustment is necessary in patients with mild (total bilirubin level at the ULN or less and AST level more than the ULN OR total bilirubin level more than 1 to 1.5 times the ULN and any AST level) or moderate (total bilirubin level more than 1.5 to 3 times the ULN and any AST level) hepatic impairment. Quizartinib has not been evaluated in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C OR total bilirubin level more than 3 times the ULN and any AST level).
  Renal Impairment
  No quizartinib dosage adjustment is necessary in patients with mild or moderate renal impairment (creatinine clearance (CrCl) of 30 to 89 mL/min). Quizartinib has not been evaluated in patients with severe renal impairment (CrCl less than 30 mL/min).
