=== Amantadine — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 20)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Amantadine is a synthetic antiviral agent with dopamine agonist properties.

Routes: topical, oral; Common adult doses: 400 mg/day PO for immediate-release capsules, oral solution, or tablets; 274 mg/day PO for extended-release capsules; 322 mg/day PO for extended-release tablets.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): arrhythmia exacerbation, cardiac arrest, cough, dyspnea, heart failure, hypertension, orthostatic hypotension, peripheral edema, pulmonary edema, sinus tachycardia, tachypnea, blurred vision, cataracts, corneal edema, corneal opacification, keratitis, mydriasis, photophobia, visual impairment, xerophthalmia, anaphylactoid reactions, diaphoresis, edema, fever, pruritus, rash, skin hyperpigmentation, agranulocytosis, leukocytosis, leukopenia

In an Overdose: Deaths have been reported from overdose with amantadine; the lowest reported acute lethal dose was 1 gram.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Do not use amantadine in people with known hypersensitivity to drugs of the adamantane class, including rimantadine and amantadine.

AMANTADINE

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

GOCOVRI, Osmolex ER, Symmetrel

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of idiopathic parkinsonism or Parkinson disease

For the treatment of Parkinson disease as concomitant therapy
Oral dosage (immediate-release)
Adults


100 mg PO once daily, initially. May increase the dose to 100 mg PO twice daily based on clinical response and tolerability. Max: 200 mg/day in divided doses.


Oral dosage (extended-release capsules)
Adults


137 mg PO once daily at bedtime for 1 week, then increase the dose to 274 mg PO once daily at bedtime. To discontinue after more than 4 weeks of use, reduce dose by one-half for 1 week. Amantadine extended-release capsules are not interchangeable with other amantadine products.


Oral dosage (extended-release tablets)
Adults


129 mg PO once daily in the morning, initially. May increase the dose at weekly intervals based on clinical response and tolerability. Max: 332 mg/day. To discontinue, reduce dose gradually from higher doses to 129 mg/day for 1 to 2 weeks before discontinuing. Amantadine extended-release tablets are not interchangeable with other amantadine products. For persons unable to tolerate more than 100 mg/day of immediate-release amantadine, there is no equivalent dose of amantadine extended-release tablets.


For the treatment of Parkinson disease as monotherapy
Oral dosage (immediate-release)
Adults


100 mg PO twice daily, initially. May increase the dose based on clinical response and tolerability. Max: 400 mg/day in divided doses.


Oral dosage (extended-release capsules)
Adults


137 mg PO once daily at bedtime for 1 week, then increase the dose to 274 mg PO once daily at bedtime. To discontinue after more than 4 weeks of use, reduce dose by one-half for 1 week. Amantadine extended-release capsules are not interchangeable with other amantadine products.


Oral dosage (extended-release tablets)
Adults


129 mg PO once daily in the morning, initially. May increase the dose at weekly intervals based on clinical response and tolerability. Max: 332 mg/day. To discontinue, reduce dose gradually from higher doses to 129 mg/day for 1 to 2 weeks before discontinuing. Amantadine extended-release tablets are not interchangeable with other amantadine products. For persons unable to tolerate more than 100 mg/day of immediate-release amantadine, there is no equivalent dose of amantadine extended-release tablets.


For the treatment of dyskinesia associated with Parkinson's disease in patients receiving levodopa-based therapy, with or without concomitant dopaminergic medications

Oral dosage (extended-release capsules only; e.g., Gocovri ER capsules)
Adults


137 mg PO once daily at bedtime, initially. After 1 week, increase to the recommended dose of 274 mg PO once daily at bedtime. Cautious dosing based on renal function is recommended in geriatric patients. SWITCHING FROM IMMEDIATE- OR EXTENDED-RELEASE (ER) AMANTADINE PRODUCTS: Gocovri is not interchangeable with other products. DISCONTINUATION: Rapid dose reduction or withdrawal may cause adverse reactions. If discontinuing after more than 4 weeks of use, the dose should typically be reduced by half for the final week of dosing, if possible.


For the treatment of drug-induced extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS)

Oral dosage (immediate-release capsules, oral solution, or tablets)
Adults


100 mg PO twice daily. Occasionally, patients with drug-induced EPS may require up to 300 mg/day PO in divided doses, but patients receiving more than 200 mg/day should be monitored closely.


Geriatric Adults


100 mg PO once daily, initially. May titrate to 100 mg PO twice daily. Occasionally, patients with drug-induced EPS may require up to 300 mg/day PO in divided doses, but patients receiving more than 200 mg/day should be monitored closely.


Oral dosage (extended-release tablets; e.g., Osmolex ER)
Adults


129 mg PO once daily in the morning, initially. May increase at weekly intervals as needed. Max: 322 mg/day PO (administered as a 129 mg and 193 mg ER tablet given once daily in the morning). SWITCHING FROM IMMEDIATE- OR EXTENDED-RELEASE (ER) AMANTADINE PRODUCTS: Osmolex ER is not interchangeable with other products. For patients unable to tolerate more than 100 mg/day of immediate-release amantadine, there is no equivalent dose/regimen of amantadine ER tablets. DISCONTINUATION: Do not discontinue abruptly. Reduce the dose gradually from higher doses to 129 mg/day for 1 to 2 weeks before discontinuing.


For the treatment of chorea associated with Huntington's Disease (Huntington's Chorea)†

Oral dosage (Immediate-release capsules, oral solution, or tablets)
Adults


Dosage not FDA-approved. 300 to 400 mg/day PO, divided and given in 3 to 4 divided doses, has been studied. If needed, the dose may be slowly titrated over 3 to 4 days at initiation to minimize adverse effects. Amantadine was evaluated in 2 randomized, placebo-controlled crossover trials, each with 2 weeks of active treatment. One trial demonstrated that amantadine 300 mg/day (n = 24) improved coordination, balance, and mental alertness in 19 of 24 subjects (p = 0.006). After treatment, significant increases in quality of life scores occurred with amantadine (3.9 +/- 0.7) compared to placebo (2.95 +/- 0.7, p less than 0.001). Chorea severity of 6 body parts, judged blindly by investigators via video of subjects, did not change significantly. During the second trial, maximum chorea severity, as measured by the Unified Huntington's Disease Rating Scale, significantly decreased by 18% (p = 0.0007) among subjects who received amantadine 400 mg/day (n = 22). Wide variations in antichoreic effects were noted among subjects. The long-term efficacy of amantadine for the treatment of Huntington's chorea is unknown.


For the treatment of multiple-sclerosis associated fatigue†

Oral dosage (immediate-release capsules, oral solution, or tablets)
Adults


Dosage not established. 100 mg PO twice daily is the commonly used dosage from clinical trials. The results of trials with amantadine have been of varied design, have included low numbers of participants and have been of short study durations (3 and 6 weeks); patients have reported inconsistent improvements in fatigue, but documentation of positive impact on daily function and life-quality are lacking. Despite these limitations, amantadine is the only oral treatment that is recommended by clinical guidelines for MS-related fatigue.


For the treatment of neuroleptic malignant syndrome†

Oral dosage (immediate-release capsules, oral solution, or tablets)
Adults


Several case reports have documented marked improvements in symptoms associated with neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS). Amantadine 100 mg PO twice daily has been used for as long as 3 weeks.


For the treatment of uncomplicated influenza A virus infection

Oral dosage (immediate-release capsules, oral solution, or tablets)
Adults


200 mg/day PO, given as a single dose or in 2 divided doses. Start treatment as soon as possible and continue for 24 to 48 hours after the symptoms resolve. Initiation of treatment within 48 hours of illness onset confers the greatest benefit; however, antiviral therapy started after 48 hours may still be beneficial in severe, complicated, progressive illness or hospitalized patients. The CDC recommends against use due to resistance.


Geriatric Adults


100 mg PO once daily. Start treatment as soon as possible and continue for 24 to 48 hours after the disappearance of signs and symptoms. Initiation of treatment within 48 hours of illness onset confers the greatest benefit; however, antiviral therapy started after 48 hours may still be beneficial in severe, complicated, progressive illness or hospitalized patients. The CDC recommends against use due to resistance.


Children and Adolescents 9 to 17 years


100 mg PO twice daily. Start treatment as soon as possible and continue for 24 to 48 hours after the symptoms resolve. Initiation of treatment within 48 hours of illness onset confers the greatest benefit; however, antiviral therapy started after 48 hours may still be beneficial in severe, complicated, progressive illness or hospitalized patients. The CDC recommends against use due to resistance.


Children 1 to 8 years


4.4 to 8.8 mg/kg/day PO, given in 2 divided doses (Max: 150 mg/day). Start treatment as soon as possible and continue for 24 to 48 hours after the symptoms resolve. Initiation of treatment within 48 hours of illness onset confers the greatest benefit; however, antiviral therapy started after 48 hours may still be beneficial in severe, complicated, progressive illness or hospitalized patients. The CDC recommends against use due to resistance.


For seasonal influenza prophylaxis for infections due to influenza A virus

Oral dosage (immediate-release capsules, oral solution, and tablets)
Adults


200 mg/day PO, given as a single dose or 2 divided doses. Start prophylaxis in anticipation of an outbreak or before or after known exposure and continue for at least 10 days after a known exposure. If used with the influenza virus vaccine, continue for 2 to 4 weeks after the vaccine has been given. The CDC recommends against use due to resistance.


Geriatric Adults


100 mg PO once daily. Start prophylaxis in anticipation of an outbreak or before or after known exposure and continue for at least 10 days after a known exposure. If used with the influenza virus vaccine, continue for 2 to 4 weeks after the vaccine has been given. The CDC recommends against use due to resistance.


Children and Adolescents 9 to 17 years


100 mg PO twice daily. Start prophylaxis in anticipation of an outbreak or before or after known exposure and continue for at least 10 days after a known exposure. If used with the influenza virus vaccine, continue for 2 to 4 weeks after the vaccine has been given. The CDC recommends against use due to resistance.


Children 1 to 8 years


4.4 to 8.8 mg/kg/day PO, given in 2 divided doses (Max: 150 mg/day). Start prophylaxis in anticipation of an outbreak or before or after known exposure and continue for at least 10 days after a known exposure. If used with the influenza virus vaccine, continue for 2 to 4 weeks after the vaccine has been given. The CDC recommends against use due to resistance.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Do not use amantadine in people with known hypersensitivity to drugs of the adamantane class, including rimantadine and amantadine.

renal failure, renal impairment


Because amantadine is primarily excreted unchanged in the urine, dosage adjustments are necessary for individuals with renal impairment. Amantadine extended-release formulations are contraindicated in individuals with renal failure. Deaths due to systemic drug accumulation have been reported in patients with renal impairment who were prescribed higher than recommended doses of amantadine for their level of renal function.


heart failure, orthostatic hypotension, peripheral edema


Monitor patients with a history of congestive heart failure or peripheral edema closely, as cases of congestive heart failure have been reported during treatment with amantadine. Dose reductions may be necessary. Use caution in patients with orthostatic hypotension, as they may be at increased risk of adverse effects; dose adjustment may also be required in these individuals. Monitor patients for dizziness and orthostatic hypotension, especially after starting amantadine or increasing the dose.


seizures


Monitor people with a history of seizures or a seizure disorder closely when amantadine is initiated. Observe these individuals closely for possible increased seizure activity.


depression, psychotic disorder, substance abuse disorder, suicidal ideation


People with a major psychotic disorder (e.g., schizophrenia or other forms of psychosis) should generally not be treated with amantadine due to the risk of exacerbating psychotic symptoms. Use with caution in individuals with a history of substance abuse disorder, as exacerbation of mental symptoms may occur. In people with a history of suicidal ideation or depression, carefully consider whether the potential benefits of amantadine outweigh the risks. Suicide attempts and suicidal ideation have been reported in patients receiving amantadine, including those without a prior psychiatric history. Because overdose can be fatal, with lethal outcomes reported at doses as low as 1 gram, prescribe the smallest appropriate quantity to reduce the risk of intentional overdose. Monitor patients for depression, suicidal ideation or behavior, and hallucinations throughout treatment with amantadine.


activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery, sleep disorder


People treated for Parkinson disease have reported falling asleep while engaged in activities of daily living, including the operation of motor vehicles, which sometimes has resulted in accidents. Prior to initiating amantadine treatment, inform patients of the potential for drowsiness and assess for risk factors, such as the use of other CNS depressants, alcohol consumption, or the presence of a sleep disorder (e.g., narcolepsy, sleep apnea). Advise all individuals who are receiving amantadine to avoid driving or operating machinery or engaging in other activities requiring coordination and concentration until they understand how the drug affects them, as it may cause drowsiness, dizziness, and blurred vision.


hepatic disease


Care should be exercised when administering amantadine to people with hepatic disease.


eczema


Use amantadine with caution in patients with a history of recurrent eczema, as eczematoid dermatitis was rarely reported during clinical trials of immediate-release amantadine.


closed-angle glaucoma


Amantadine has anticholinergic effects and may cause mydriasis. Some manufacturers recommend avoiding use in people with untreated closed-angle glaucoma due to the risk of precipitating an acute glaucoma attack.


geriatric


Because of an age-related decline in renal function, a dose reduction of immediate-release amantadine formulations is recommended in geriatric adults. Monitor renal function to guide both immediate and extended-release product dosage selection in older adults. Clinical experience shows that geriatric adults receiving amantadine are more likely to experience anticholinergic effects of amantadine, as well as adverse effects such as hallucinations and falls, compared to younger adults.


pregnancy


There are no adequate data on the potential developmental risks of amantadine during human pregnancy. Fetal malformations (tetralogy of Fallot, tibial hemimelia, cardiovascular malformations) have been noted in 2 cases where normal doses of amantadine were used in the first trimester of human pregnancy. Animal studies indicate a possible risk of fetal harm, as amantadine administered to pregnant mice and rats at doses similar to those used clinically resulted in embryolethality, increased malformations, and decreased fetal weight.


people who can cause pregnancy in others, people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk


Counsel people who may become pregnant and people who can cause pregnancy in others about the reproductive risk associated with amantadine. Until more data become available on the effects of amantadine on fertility, caution is advisable when using amantadine in patients with infertility problems. In rat studies, amantadine given at a dose equal to 32 mg/kg/day (equal to the maximum recommended human dose) resulted in impaired fertility in both male and female rats. The no-effect dose for adverse effects on fertility (10 mg/kg/day) is less than the recommended human dose of 274 mg/day on a mg/m2 basis. Failed human fertility has been reported when amantadine was used during in vitro fertilization; the male sperm donor had used amantadine 2 weeks prior to, and during the fertilization cycle.


breast-feeding


It has been recommended to avoid the use of amantadine during breast-feeding. Amantadine is a dopamine agonist and, at usual prescribed doses, may inhibit lactation. In published studies, amantadine reduced serum prolactin levels and the symptoms of galactorrhea in patients taking neuroleptic drugs. It is present in human milk. Oseltamivir and zanamivir are preferred alternatives to amantadine for prophylaxis or treatment of influenza A during breast-feeding, due to resistant strains and other clinical factors. Consider the developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding along with the clinical need of the patient and any potential adverse effects on the breast-fed child from drug treatment or from the patient's underlying condition.


Pregnancy And Lactation


There are no adequate data on the potential developmental risks of amantadine during human pregnancy. Fetal malformations (tetralogy of Fallot, tibial hemimelia, cardiovascular malformations) have been noted in 2 cases where normal doses of amantadine were used in the first trimester of human pregnancy. Animal studies indicate a possible risk of fetal harm, as amantadine administered to pregnant mice and rats at doses similar to those used clinically resulted in embryolethality, increased malformations, and decreased fetal weight.


Interactions

Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Major) Amantadine used concomitantly with psychostimulants, such as caffeine, can result in increased stimulant effects, such as nervousness, irritability, or insomnia, and can lead to seizures or cardiac arrhythmias. Close monitoring of the patient is recommended.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Medications with significant anticholinergic activity may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Amantadine used concomitantly with psychostimulants, such as caffeine, can result in increased stimulant effects, such as nervousness, irritability, or insomnia, and can lead to seizures or cardiac arrhythmias. Close monitoring of the patient is recommended.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Major) Amantadine used concomitantly with psychostimulants, such as caffeine, can result in increased stimulant effects, such as nervousness, irritability, or insomnia, and can lead to seizures or cardiac arrhythmias. Close monitoring of the patient is recommended.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Major) Amantadine used concomitantly with psychostimulants, such as caffeine, can result in increased stimulant effects, such as nervousness, irritability, or insomnia, and can lead to seizures or cardiac arrhythmias. Close monitoring of the patient is recommended. (Moderate) Medications with significant anticholinergic activity may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Medications with significant anticholinergic activity may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Medications with significant anticholinergic activity may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Medications with significant anticholinergic activity may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Medications with significant anticholinergic activity may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Medications with significant anticholinergic activity may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Moderate) Medications with significant anticholinergic activity may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Acetaminophen; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Medications with significant anticholinergic activity may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Acetaminophen; Pamabrom; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Medications with significant anticholinergic activity may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Alosetron: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like amantadine, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects and CNS effects may be seen when tricyclic antidepressants are used concomitantly with amantadine.
Amoxapine: (Moderate) Medications with significant anticholinergic activity, like amoxapine, may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects.
Amphetamine: (Moderate) Careful observation is required when amantadine is administered concurrently with central nervous system (CNS) stimulants. An increase in stimulant effects, such as nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tremor, seizures, or cardiac arrhythmias may occur.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine Salts: (Moderate) Careful observation is required when amantadine is administered concurrently with central nervous system (CNS) stimulants. An increase in stimulant effects, such as nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tremor, seizures, or cardiac arrhythmias may occur.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Careful observation is required when amantadine is administered concurrently with central nervous system (CNS) stimulants. An increase in stimulant effects, such as nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tremor, seizures, or cardiac arrhythmias may occur.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Amantadine used concomitantly with psychostimulants, such as caffeine, can result in increased stimulant effects, such as nervousness, irritability, or insomnia, and can lead to seizures or cardiac arrhythmias. Close monitoring of the patient is recommended.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Major) Amantadine used concomitantly with psychostimulants, such as caffeine, can result in increased stimulant effects, such as nervousness, irritability, or insomnia, and can lead to seizures or cardiac arrhythmias. Close monitoring of the patient is recommended.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Major) Amantadine used concomitantly with psychostimulants, such as caffeine, can result in increased stimulant effects, such as nervousness, irritability, or insomnia, and can lead to seizures or cardiac arrhythmias. Close monitoring of the patient is recommended. (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects and drowsiness may be seen when orphenadrine is used concomitantly with amantadine.
Atropine: (Major) Amantadine may exhibit anticholinergic activity. Antimuscarinics, such as atropine, may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Major) Amantadine may exhibit anticholinergic activity. Antimuscarinics, such as atropine, may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects. (Moderate) Concomitant administration of amantadine and diphenoxylate/difenoxin may cause an additive decrease in GI motility and should be used cautiously.
Benzgalantamine: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of cholinesterase inhibitors may be diminished when co-administered with drugs known to exhibit anticholinergic properties like amantadine.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Major) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when hyoscyamine is used concomitantly with other drugs that possess antimuscarinic effects.
Benzphetamine: (Moderate) Careful observation is required when amantadine is administered concurrently with central nervous system (CNS) stimulants. An increase in stimulant effects, such as nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tremor, seizures, or cardiac arrhythmias may occur.
Benztropine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when benztropine is used concomitantly with other drugs that possess anticholinergic properties, such as amantadine. Clinicians should note that anticholinergic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Bismuth Subsalicylate: (Moderate) Antidiarrheals decrease GI motility. Agents that inhibit intestinal motility or prolong intestinal transit time have been reported to induce toxic megacolon. The concomitant administration of amantadine may produce additive effects.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Antidiarrheals decrease GI motility. Agents that inhibit intestinal motility or prolong intestinal transit time have been reported to induce toxic megacolon. The concomitant administration of amantadine may produce additive effects.
Brompheniramine: (Moderate) Medications with significant anticholinergic activity may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Medications with significant anticholinergic activity may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Medications with significant anticholinergic activity may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Medications with significant anticholinergic activity may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Medications with significant anticholinergic activity may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Major) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when glycopyrrolate is used concomitantly with other drugs that possess antimuscarinic properties, such as amantadine.
buPROPion: (Major) Use caution when concurrently administering bupropion and amantadine; if concurrent use is necessary, low initial dosing and slow dosage titration of bupropion should be considered. Both bupropion and amantadine have dopamine agonist effects, and coadministration may result in additive CNS dopaminergic effects. Reported adverse reactions have included neurologic side effects such as restlessness, agitation, gait disturbance, vertigo, and dizziness; some patients have required hospitalization. In reported cases, discontinuation of the drugs resulted in symptom resolution.
buPROPion; Naltrexone: (Major) Use caution when concurrently administering bupropion and amantadine; if concurrent use is necessary, low initial dosing and slow dosage titration of bupropion should be considered. Both bupropion and amantadine have dopamine agonist effects, and coadministration may result in additive CNS dopaminergic effects. Reported adverse reactions have included neurologic side effects such as restlessness, agitation, gait disturbance, vertigo, and dizziness; some patients have required hospitalization. In reported cases, discontinuation of the drugs resulted in symptom resolution.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Amantadine used concomitantly with psychostimulants, such as caffeine, can result in increased stimulant effects, such as nervousness, irritability, or insomnia, and can lead to seizures or cardiac arrhythmias. Close monitoring of the patient is recommended.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Amantadine used concomitantly with psychostimulants, such as caffeine, can result in increased stimulant effects, such as nervousness, irritability, or insomnia, and can lead to seizures or cardiac arrhythmias. Close monitoring of the patient is recommended.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Amantadine used concomitantly with psychostimulants, such as caffeine, can result in increased stimulant effects, such as nervousness, irritability, or insomnia, and can lead to seizures or cardiac arrhythmias. Close monitoring of the patient is recommended.
Caffeine: (Major) Amantadine used concomitantly with psychostimulants, such as caffeine, can result in increased stimulant effects, such as nervousness, irritability, or insomnia, and can lead to seizures or cardiac arrhythmias. Close monitoring of the patient is recommended. (Major) Amantadine used concomitantly with psychostimulants, such as caffeine, can result in increased stimulant effects, such as nervousness, irritability, or insomnia, and can lead to seizures or cardiac arrhythmias. Close monitoring of the patient is recommended.
Caffeine; Sodium Benzoate: (Major) Amantadine used concomitantly with psychostimulants, such as caffeine, can result in increased stimulant effects, such as nervousness, irritability, or insomnia, and can lead to seizures or cardiac arrhythmias. Close monitoring of the patient is recommended.
Carbinoxamine: (Moderate) Medications with significant anticholinergic activity may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Chlophedianol; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Medications with significant anticholinergic activity may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Medications with significant anticholinergic activity may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Chlorcyclizine: (Moderate) Medications with significant anticholinergic activity may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects and CNS effects may be seen when tricyclic antidepressants are used concomitantly with amantadine.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Major) Amantadine may exhibit anticholinergic activity. Antimuscarinics, such as clidinium, may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine.
Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Medications with significant anticholinergic activity may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Medications with significant anticholinergic activity may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Medications with significant anticholinergic activity may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Medications with significant anticholinergic activity may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Medications with significant anticholinergic activity may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Medications with significant anticholinergic activity may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Medications with significant anticholinergic activity may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Medications with significant anticholinergic activity may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Medications with significant anticholinergic activity may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
chlorproMAZINE: (Moderate) Although the mechanism of amantadine is not clear, it may potentiate the actions of dopamine. Since phenothiazines are dopamine antagonists, these drugs are best avoided when possible in patients with Parkinson's disease who require amantadine therapy. Also, the anticholinergic effects of phenothiazines can be additive to those of amantadine.
Clemastine: (Moderate) Medications with significant anticholinergic activity may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects and CNS effects may be seen when tricyclic antidepressants are used concomitantly with amantadine.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Medications with significant anticholinergic activity, such as clozapine, may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Medications with significant anticholinergic activity may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Although the mechanism of amantadine is not clear, it may potentiate the actions of dopamine. Since phenothiazines are dopamine antagonists, these drugs are best avoided when possible in patients with Parkinson's disease who require amantadine therapy. Also, the anticholinergic effects of phenothiazines can be additive to those of amantadine.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Although the mechanism of amantadine is not clear, it may potentiate the actions of dopamine. Since phenothiazines are dopamine antagonists, these drugs are best avoided when possible in patients with Parkinson's disease who require amantadine therapy. Also, the anticholinergic effects of phenothiazines can be additive to those of amantadine.
Cyclobenzaprine: (Moderate) Amantadine exhibits significant anticholinergic activity. Medications with significant anticholinergic activity, like cyclobenzaprine, may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects, including constipation and urinary retention.
Cyproheptadine: (Moderate) Medications with significant anticholinergic activity may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Darifenacin: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with antimuscarinic properties like darifenacin are used concomitantly with amantadine.
Desipramine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects and CNS effects may be seen when tricyclic antidepressants are used concomitantly with amantadine.
Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Medications with significant anticholinergic activity may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Medications with significant anticholinergic activity may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Medications with significant anticholinergic activity may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Dexchlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Medications with significant anticholinergic activity may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Medications with significant anticholinergic activity may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Use of amantadine with methylphenidate derivatives, which are CNS stimulants, requires careful observation. Coadministration may increase the risk of stimulant effects, such as nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tremor, seizures, or cardiac arrhythmias.
Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Careful observation is required when amantadine is administered concurrently with central nervous system (CNS) stimulants. An increase in stimulant effects, such as nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tremor, seizures, or cardiac arrhythmias may occur.
Dextromethorphan; buPROPion: (Major) Use caution when concurrently administering bupropion and amantadine; if concurrent use is necessary, low initial dosing and slow dosage titration of bupropion should be considered. Both bupropion and amantadine have dopamine agonist effects, and coadministration may result in additive CNS dopaminergic effects. Reported adverse reactions have included neurologic side effects such as restlessness, agitation, gait disturbance, vertigo, and dizziness; some patients have required hospitalization. In reported cases, discontinuation of the drugs resulted in symptom resolution.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Medications with significant anticholinergic activity may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Minor) Concomitant administration of quinidine with amantadine has been shown to decrease the renal clearance of amantadine. An in vivo study demonstrated that quinidine, a known organic cation transporter inhibitor, reduced amantadine clearance by approximately 33% in humans. The proposed mechanism is inhibition of the renal tubular secretion of amantadine, but the mechanism appears to be independent of OCT2 or other known renal drug transporters. The clinical significance is not known. Monitor for possible side effects of amantadine, including dizziness, confusion, nausea/vomiting, xerostomia, and anticholinergic effects.
Dicyclomine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when dicyclomine is used concomitantly with other drugs that possess anticholinergic properties, such as amantadine. Clinicians should note that anticholinergic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Diethylpropion: (Moderate) Careful observation is required when amantadine is administered concurrently with central nervous system (CNS) stimulants. An increase in stimulant effects, such as nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tremor, seizures, or cardiac arrhythmias may occur.
dimenhyDRINATE: (Moderate) Medications with significant anticholinergic activity may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Medications with significant anticholinergic activity may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Medications with significant anticholinergic activity may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Medications with significant anticholinergic activity may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Medications with significant anticholinergic activity may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Major) Amantadine may exhibit anticholinergic activity. Antimuscarinics, such as atropine, may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects. (Moderate) Concomitant administration of amantadine and diphenoxylate/difenoxin may cause an additive decrease in GI motility and should be used cautiously.
Disopyramide: (Moderate) Amantadine may exhibit anticholinergic activity. Medications with significant anticholinergic activity, such as disopyramide, may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects.
Donepezil: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of donepezil may be diminished when co-administered with drugs known to exhibit anticholinergic properties, inlcuding amantadine.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Moderate) Amantadine is a NMDA antagonist and may lead to additive adverse effects if combined with memantine, also an NMDA antagonist. It may be prudent to avoid coadministration of amantadine with memantine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for increased adverse effects such as agitation, dizziness and other CNS events. (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of donepezil may be diminished when co-administered with drugs known to exhibit anticholinergic properties, inlcuding amantadine.
Doxepin: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects and CNS effects may be seen when tricyclic antidepressants are used concomitantly with amantadine.
Doxylamine: (Moderate) Medications with significant anticholinergic activity may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Doxylamine; Pyridoxine: (Moderate) Medications with significant anticholinergic activity may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Ergotamine; Caffeine: (Major) Amantadine used concomitantly with psychostimulants, such as caffeine, can result in increased stimulant effects, such as nervousness, irritability, or insomnia, and can lead to seizures or cardiac arrhythmias. Close monitoring of the patient is recommended.
Ethanol: (Major) Advise patients to avoid alcohol while taking amantadine. Concomitant use with alcohol may increase the potential for CNS effects such as dizziness, confusion, lightheadedness, and orthostatic hypotension. In addition, if the patient is using amantadine extended-release (ER), alcohol use may result in amantadine dose-dumping and toxicity.
Fesoterodine: (Moderate) Coadministration of fesoterodine and other drugs with moderate to significant anticholinergic effects such as amantadine may increase the frequency and/or severity of anticholinergic effects such as blurred vision, constipation, xerostomia, and urinary retention. Additive effects may be seen on GI smooth muscle, bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation.
flavoxATE: (Moderate) Medications with significant anticholinergic activity may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects.
fluPHENAZine: (Moderate) Although the mechanism of amantadine is not clear, it may potentiate the actions of dopamine. Since phenothiazines are dopamine antagonists, these drugs are best avoided when possible in patients with Parkinson's disease who require amantadine therapy. Also, the anticholinergic effects of phenothiazines can be additive to those of amantadine.
Galantamine: (Moderate) The therapeutic benefits of cholinesterase inhibitors may be diminished when co-administered with drugs known to exhibit anticholinergic properties like amantadine.
Glycopyrrolate: (Major) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when glycopyrrolate is used concomitantly with other drugs that possess antimuscarinic properties, such as amantadine.
Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Major) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when glycopyrrolate is used concomitantly with other drugs that possess antimuscarinic properties, such as amantadine.
Haloperidol: (Moderate) Although the mechanism of amantadine is not clear, it may potentiate the actions of dopamine. Since haloperidol is a dopamine antagonist, this drug is best avoided when possible in patients with Parkinson's disease who require amantadine therapy.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Significant systemic absorption has been reported in some cases with ocular homatropine. The anticholinergic effects of homatropine may be enhanced when combined with other drugs that possess antimuscarinic properties.
hydrOXYzine: (Moderate) Medications with significant anticholinergic activity may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Hyoscyamine: (Major) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when hyoscyamine is used concomitantly with other drugs that possess antimuscarinic effects.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Major) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when hyoscyamine is used concomitantly with other drugs that possess antimuscarinic effects.
Imipramine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects and CNS effects may be seen when tricyclic antidepressants are used concomitantly with amantadine.
Intranasal Influenza Vaccine: (Major) Do not administer the intranasal live attenuated influenza vaccine (LAIV) 2 weeks before or 48 hours after administration of amantadine, unless medically indicated. Inactivated influenza vaccines may be used, as appropriate. Because of its antiviral properties, amantadine may interfere with the efficacy of live attenuated influenza vaccines. Therefore, live influenza virus vaccines are not recommended during treatment with amantadine. Consult currently recommended guidance on the use of antiviral drugs against influenza.
Live Attenuated Influenza Vaccine (intranasal): (Major) Do not administer the intranasal live attenuated influenza vaccine (LAIV) 2 weeks before or 48 hours after administration of amantadine, unless medically indicated. Inactivated influenza vaccines may be used, as appropriate. Because of its antiviral properties, amantadine may interfere with the efficacy of live attenuated influenza vaccines. Therefore, live influenza virus vaccines are not recommended during treatment with amantadine. Consult currently recommended guidance on the use of antiviral drugs against influenza.
Loxapine: (Moderate) Although the mechanism of amantadine is not clear, it may potentiate the actions of dopamine. Since loxapine is a dopamine antagonist, this drug is best avoided when possible in patients with Parkinson's disease who require amantadine therapy.
Meclizine: (Moderate) Medications with significant anticholinergic activity may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Memantine: (Moderate) Amantadine is a NMDA antagonist and may lead to additive adverse effects if combined with memantine, also an NMDA antagonist. It may be prudent to avoid coadministration of amantadine with memantine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for increased adverse effects such as agitation, dizziness and other CNS events.
Methamphetamine: (Moderate) Amantadine used concomitantly with psychostimulants can result in increased stimulant effects, such as nervousness, irritability, or insomnia, and can lead to seizures or cardiac arrhythmias. Close monitoring of the patient is recommended.
Methenamine; Sodium Acid Phosphate; Methylene Blue; Hyoscyamine: (Major) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when hyoscyamine is used concomitantly with other drugs that possess antimuscarinic effects.
Methscopolamine: (Major) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when methscopolamine is used concomitantly with other drugs that possess antimuscarinic properties, such as amantadine.
Methylphenidate Derivatives: (Moderate) Use of amantadine with methylphenidate derivatives, which are CNS stimulants, requires careful observation. Coadministration may increase the risk of stimulant effects, such as nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tremor, seizures, or cardiac arrhythmias.
Methylphenidate: (Moderate) Use of amantadine with methylphenidate derivatives, which are CNS stimulants, requires careful observation. Coadministration may increase the risk of stimulant effects, such as nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tremor, seizures, or cardiac arrhythmias.
Metoclopramide: (Major) Metoclopramide is a central dopamine antagonist and can antagonize the actions of dopamine agonists such as amantadine. In addition, metoclopramide may cause extrapyramidal reactions (e.g., acute dystonic reactions, pseudo-parkinsonism, akathisia, tardive dyskinesia), and rarely, neuroleptic malignant syndrome. The manufacturer of metoclopramide does not specifically contraindicate the use of metoclopramide and dopamine agonists; however, coadministration should be avoided if possible.
Modafinil: (Moderate) Use of amantadine with modafinil, a CNS stimulant, requires careful observation. Coadministration may increase the risk of stimulant effects, such as nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tremor, seizures, or cardiac arrhythmias.
Molindone: (Moderate) Although the mechanism of amantadine is not clear, it may potentiate the actions of dopamine. Since molindone is a dopamine antagonist, this drug is best avoided when possible in patients with Parkinson's disease who require amantadine therapy.
Neostigmine; Glycopyrrolate: (Major) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when glycopyrrolate is used concomitantly with other drugs that possess antimuscarinic properties, such as amantadine.
Nortriptyline: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects and CNS effects may be seen when tricyclic antidepressants are used concomitantly with amantadine.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Amantadine may exhibit anticholinergic activity. Medications with significant anticholinergic activity, such as olanzapine, may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, neurologic function, and temperature regulation.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Amantadine may exhibit anticholinergic activity. Medications with significant anticholinergic activity, such as olanzapine, may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, neurologic function, and temperature regulation.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Amantadine may exhibit anticholinergic activity. Medications with significant anticholinergic activity, such as olanzapine, may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, neurologic function, and temperature regulation.
Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects and drowsiness may be seen when orphenadrine is used concomitantly with amantadine.
oxyBUTYnin: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when oxybutynin is used concomitantly with drugs with moderate to significant anticholinergic effects such as amantadine. Clinicians should note that anticholinergic effects might be seen not only on bladder smooth muscle, but also on GI function, the eye, and temperature regulation. With many of the listed agents, additive drowsiness may also occur when combined with oxybutynin.
Pentazocine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Use pentazocine with caution in any patient receiving anticholinergic agents. Coadministration of pentazocine with amantadine may result in additive anticholinergic effects, such as urinary retention and constipation.
Perphenazine: (Moderate) Although the mechanism of amantadine is not clear, it may potentiate the actions of dopamine. Since phenothiazines are dopamine antagonists, these drugs are best avoided when possible in patients with Parkinson's disease who require amantadine therapy. Also, the anticholinergic effects of phenothiazines can be additive to those of amantadine.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects and CNS effects may be seen when tricyclic antidepressants are used concomitantly with amantadine. (Moderate) Although the mechanism of amantadine is not clear, it may potentiate the actions of dopamine. Since phenothiazines are dopamine antagonists, these drugs are best avoided when possible in patients with Parkinson's disease who require amantadine therapy. Also, the anticholinergic effects of phenothiazines can be additive to those of amantadine.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when hyoscyamine is used concomitantly with other drugs that possess antimuscarinic effects. (Major) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when scopolamine is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics, such as amantadine. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. (Major) Amantadine may exhibit anticholinergic activity. Antimuscarinics, such as atropine, may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects.
Phenothiazines: (Moderate) Although the mechanism of amantadine is not clear, it may potentiate the actions of dopamine. Since phenothiazines are dopamine antagonists, these drugs are best avoided when possible in patients with Parkinson's disease who require amantadine therapy. Also, the anticholinergic effects of phenothiazines can be additive to those of amantadine.
Pimozide: (Moderate) Although the mechanism of amantadine is not clear, it may potentiate the actions of dopamine. Since pimozide is a dopamine antagonist, this drug should be avoided when possible in patients with Parkinson's disease who require amantadine therapy.
Prochlorperazine: (Moderate) Although the mechanism of amantadine is not clear, it may potentiate the actions of dopamine. Since phenothiazines are dopamine antagonists, these drugs are best avoided when possible in patients with Parkinson's disease who require amantadine therapy. Also, the anticholinergic effects of phenothiazines can be additive to those of amantadine.
Promethazine: (Moderate) Although the mechanism of amantadine is not clear, it may potentiate the actions of dopamine. Since phenothiazines are dopamine antagonists, these drugs are best avoided when possible in patients with Parkinson's disease who require amantadine therapy. Also, the anticholinergic effects of phenothiazines can be additive to those of amantadine.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Although the mechanism of amantadine is not clear, it may potentiate the actions of dopamine. Since phenothiazines are dopamine antagonists, these drugs are best avoided when possible in patients with Parkinson's disease who require amantadine therapy. Also, the anticholinergic effects of phenothiazines can be additive to those of amantadine.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Although the mechanism of amantadine is not clear, it may potentiate the actions of dopamine. Since phenothiazines are dopamine antagonists, these drugs are best avoided when possible in patients with Parkinson's disease who require amantadine therapy. Also, the anticholinergic effects of phenothiazines can be additive to those of amantadine.
Protriptyline: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects and CNS effects may be seen when tricyclic antidepressants are used concomitantly with amantadine.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) Medications with significant anticholinergic activity may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
quiNIDine: (Minor) Concomitant administration of quinidine with amantadine has been shown to decrease the renal clearance of amantadine. An in vivo study demonstrated that quinidine, a known organic cation transporter inhibitor, reduced amantadine clearance by approximately 33% in humans. The proposed mechanism is inhibition of the renal tubular secretion of amantadine, but the mechanism appears to be independent of OCT2 or other known renal drug transporters. The clinical significance is not known. Monitor for possible side effects of amantadine, including dizziness, confusion, nausea/vomiting, xerostomia, and anticholinergic effects.
Rivastigmine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of amantadine and rivastigmine should be avoided if possible. Rivastigmine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Amantadine may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of rivastigmine.
Scopolamine: (Major) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when scopolamine is used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics, such as amantadine. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
Sedating H1-blockers: (Moderate) Medications with significant anticholinergic activity may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Serdexmethylphenidate; Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Use of amantadine with methylphenidate derivatives, which are CNS stimulants, requires careful observation. Coadministration may increase the risk of stimulant effects, such as nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tremor, seizures, or cardiac arrhythmias.
Solriamfetol: (Moderate) Monitor for dopamine-mediated effects including nausea, vomiting, dizziness, tremor, and changes in moods or behaviors if solriamfetol, a central dopamine and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor, is administered with other dopaminergic drugs, such as amantadine. Caution is recommended since this combination has not been evaluated.
Sulfamethoxazole; Trimethoprim, SMX-TMP, Cotrimoxazole: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of amantadine and trimethoprim. A single case of toxic delirium has been reported after coadministration of trimethoprim and amantadine. Amantadine is an OCT2 substrate and trimethoprim is an OCT2 inhibitor.
Talimogene Laherparepvec: (Major) Consider the risks and benefits of treatment with talimogene laherparepvec before administering acyclovir or other antivirals to prevent or manage herpetic infection. Talimogene laherparepvec is a live, attenuated herpes simplex virus that is sensitive to acyclovir; coadministration with antiviral agents may cause a decrease in efficacy.
Thioridazine: (Moderate) Although the mechanism of amantadine is not clear, it may potentiate the actions of dopamine. Since phenothiazines are dopamine antagonists, these drugs are best avoided when possible in patients with Parkinson's disease who require amantadine therapy. Also, the anticholinergic effects of phenothiazines can be additive to those of amantadine.
Thiothixene: (Moderate) Although the mechanism of amantadine is not clear, it may potentiate the actions of dopamine. Since thiothixene is a dopamine antagonist, this drug is best avoided when possible in patients with Parkinson's disease who require amantadine therapy.
Tolterodine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with antimuscarinic properties like tolterodine are used concomitantly with other drugs with moderate to significant anticholinergic effects such as amantadine. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur, depending on the interacting agent.
Triamterene: (Minor) Use caution. Triamterene can reduce the renal clearance of amantadine, with subsequent increased amantadine serum concentrations. The clinical significance is not known. Monitor for possible side effects of amantadine, including dizziness, confusion, nausea/vomiting, xerostomia, and anticholinergic effects.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Use caution. Triamterene can reduce the renal clearance of amantadine, with subsequent increased amantadine serum concentrations. The clinical significance is not known. Monitor for possible side effects of amantadine, including dizziness, confusion, nausea/vomiting, xerostomia, and anticholinergic effects.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects and CNS effects may be seen when tricyclic antidepressants are used concomitantly with amantadine.
Trifluoperazine: (Moderate) Although the mechanism of amantadine is not clear, it may potentiate the actions of dopamine. Since phenothiazines are dopamine antagonists, these drugs are best avoided when possible in patients with Parkinson's disease who require amantadine therapy. Also, the anticholinergic effects of phenothiazines can be additive to those of amantadine.
Trihexyphenidyl: (Moderate) Amantadine may exhibit anticholinergic activity, as may trihexyphenidyl. These drugs are not commonly used together. Both trihexyphenidyl and amantadine have significant anticholinergic activity and the combination may increase the risk of anticholinergic-related side effects. Clinicians should note that such effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, neurologic function, and temperature regulation. Monitor for effects such as confusion, constipation, dizziness, difficulty with urination, dry mouth and eyes, and changes in vision.
Trimethoprim: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of amantadine and trimethoprim. A single case of toxic delirium has been reported after coadministration of trimethoprim and amantadine. Amantadine is an OCT2 substrate and trimethoprim is an OCT2 inhibitor.
Trimipramine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects and CNS effects may be seen when tricyclic antidepressants are used concomitantly with amantadine.
Triprolidine: (Moderate) Medications with significant anticholinergic activity may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Trospium: (Moderate) Monitor for additive anticholinergic adverse reactions if concomitant use of trospium and amantadine is necessary.
Xanomeline; Trospium: (Moderate) Monitor for additive anticholinergic adverse reactions if concomitant use of trospium and amantadine is necessary.


Adverse Reaction
abnormal dreams, agitation, amnesia, anxiety, ataxia, coma, confusion, delirium, depression, dizziness, drowsiness, dysarthria, dysphagia, dystonic reaction, euphoria, fatigue, hallucinations, headache, hyperkinesis, hypertonia, insomnia, irritability, mania, paranoia, paresthesias, psychosis, seizures, suicidal ideation, tremor, weakness


Many adverse reactions associated with amantadine involve the central nervous system (CNS). Two of the most frequent (5% to 10%) adverse events reported during clinical trials of immediate-release amantadine were dizziness and insomnia. Instruct patients to avoid arising suddenly from a seated or lying position and to inform their prescribing physician if dizziness or lightheadedness occurs. Less frequent (1% to 5%) CNS adverse events observed in clinical trials of immediate-release amantadine included anxiety, ataxia, agitation, confusion, depression, drowsiness or fatigue, hallucinations, headache, irritability, nervousness, and abnormal dreams. Cases of abnormal thinking, amnesia, dysarthria or slurred speech, euphoria, hyperkinesis, psychosis, and weakness were reported in 0.1% to 1% of patients. Rare (less than 0.1%) but potentially serious CNS adverse events included oculogyric episodes, suicidal ideation, suicide attempts, and completed suicides. During clinical trial evaluation of the extended-release amantadine capsules (e.g., Gocovri), the following CNS or related effects were reported in at least 3% of patients treated with 274 mg/day of extended-release amantadine: dizziness (16%), headache (6%), dystonic reaction (3%), hallucinations (21%), anxiety (7%), insomnia (7%), depression (6%), abnormal dreams (4%), confusion (3%), gait disturbance (3%), falls (13%), and contusion (6%). Less than 3% of patients experienced somnolence, fatigue, suicidal ideation or attempt, apathy, delusions, illusions, and paranoia. Many of these events occurred in patients receiving short courses and in patients with and without prior history of psychiatric illness. The following adverse effects led to treatment discontinuation in more patients receiving amantadine than placebo: hallucinations (8%), abnormal dreams (2%), dysphagia (2%), and gait disturbance (2%). The following events were reported more frequently in patients 65 years and older than adults younger than 65 years: hallucinations (31% vs. 10%) and falls (17% vs. 8%). Women experienced abnormal dreams more frequently than men (9% vs. 0%) while men experienced dizziness (20% vs. 11%), anxiety (11% vs. 2%), and gait disturbance (6% vs. 0%) more frequently than women. Rarely (less than 0.1%), seizures have occurred with amantadine use. The threshold for seizure activity may be decreased in patients with a history of epilepsy; therefore caution is advised when administering amantadine to these individuals. Other CNS adverse events occurring during postmarketing use of immediate-release amantadine include aggression, coma, delirium, delusions, dysphagia, EEG changes, gait abnormalities, hypertonia, hypokinesia, involuntary muscle contractions, mania, paranoia, paresthesias, stupor, and tremor. Due to the voluntary nature of postmarketing reports, neither a frequency nor a definitive causal relationship can be established. Additionally, abrupt discontinuation of amantadine has been associated with adverse CNS events and may precipitate delirium, agitation, delusions, hallucinations, paranoia, stupor, anxiety, depressed state, and slurred speech.


impulse control symptoms, libido increase


Some patients receiving medications that increase dopaminergic tone have reported intense and uncontrollable urges to gamble, increased sexual urges, or other intense urges. In postmarketing use of amantadine, pathologic gambling, libido increase including hypersexuality, and other impulse control symptoms have been reported. Causality due to dopaminergic agents has not been established; however, in some cases, the urges stopped after the dose was reduced or the drug was discontinued. Practitioners should inquire periodically about new or worsening impulse control symptoms in patients receiving amantadine. Likewise, patients should be instructed to report such changes while receiving amantadine. Dose reduction or discontinuation should be considered in those who experience these effects.


sudden sleep onset


Some patients treated with amantadine have reported sudden sleep onset. Some incidents have occurred while the patient was driving or performing other potentially hazardous activities. In some cases excessive drowsiness has resulted in auto accidents or other harmful events in the course of daily living. Sudden sleep onset has occurred as late as 1 year after the initiation of treatment, and the relation to the medication is not entirely clear. Prior to initiating treatment with amantadine, patients should be advised of the potential to develop somnolence and specifically asked about factors that may increase the risk of experiencing such an event such as concomitant use of sedating medications (coadministration with other CNS depressants), ethanol ingestion, and the presence of sleep disorders (e.g., narcolepsy, sleep apnea). Reassessment for drowsiness or oversedation is necessary throughout amantadine therapy because patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. If a patient develops significant daytime sleepiness or episodes of falling asleep during activities that require active participation (e.g., conversations, eating, etc.), amantadine should generally be discontinued. If a decision is made to continue the drug, patients should be advised against driving or operating heavy machinery or engaging in other potentially dangerous activities. There is insufficient information to establish that dose reduction will eliminate episodes of falling asleep while engaged in activities of daily living.


arrhythmia exacerbation, cardiac arrest, cough, dyspnea, heart failure, hypertension, orthostatic hypotension, peripheral edema, pulmonary edema, sinus tachycardia, tachypnea


During clinical trial evaluation of immediate-release amantadine, the following cardiopulmonary adverse events were reported in 1% to 5% of amantadine-treated patients: peripheral edema and orthostatic hypotension. Dyspnea, hypertension, and heart failure were reported in 0.1% to 1% of amantadine-treated patients. During clinical trial evaluation of 274 mg/day of the extended-release amantadine capsules (e.g., Gocovri), the following cardiopulmonary effects were reported in at least 3% of amantadine-treated patients: peripheral edema (16%), orthostatic hypotension (13%), and cough (3%). The following adverse effects led to treatment discontinuation in more patients receiving amantadine than placebo: peripheral edema (3%) and postural syncope (2%). Orthostatic hypotension was reported more frequently in patients 65 years and older than adults younger than 65 years (8% vs. 2%). Men experienced the following effects more frequently than women: peripheral edema (19% vs. 11%) and orthostatic hypotension (7% vs. 2%). Cardiopulmonary adverse events reported during postmarketing use of immediate-release amantadine include cardiac arrest, arrhythmia exacerbation (including malignant arrhythmias), hypotension, sinus tachycardia, acute respiratory failure, pulmonary edema, and tachypnea. Due to the voluntary nature of postmarketing reports, neither a frequency nor a definitive causal relationship can be established.


anorexia, constipation, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, xerostomia


During clinical trial evaluation of immediate-release amantadine, nausea was reported in 5% to 10% of amantadine-treated patients. Adverse gastrointestinal (GI) effects reported in 1% to 5% of amantadine-treated patients included anorexia, xerostomia, constipation, dry nose, and diarrhea. Vomiting occurred infrequently (0.1% to 1%). During clinical trial evaluation of the extended-release amantadine capsules (e.g., Gocovri), the following GI effects were reported in at least 3% of patients treated with 274 mg/day of extended-release amantadine: xerostomia (16%), constipation (13%), nausea (8%), vomiting (3%), and appetite decrease (6%). Xerostomia led to treatment discontinuation in more patients receiving amantadine than placebo (3%). Women experienced nausea (13% vs. 4%) and xerostomia (22% vs. 11%) more frequently than men. Some of these events may be due to amantadine-related anticholinergic effects. Amantadine associated anticholinergic effects are more likely to occur in patients with increased plasma concentrations, such as those with renal dysfunction or in the elderly. A dose reduction may alleviate these effects in some patients. Deaths have been reported from overdose with amantadine; the lowest reported acute lethal dose was 1 gram. Acute toxicity may be attributable to anticholinergic effects.


livedo reticularis


Livedo reticularis, a reticulated vascular pattern that appears as a purple lace-like skin discoloration, may occur with amantadine therapy. During clinical trial evaluation of immediate-release amantadine, livedo reticularis was reported in 1% to 5% of amantadine-treated patients. During clinical trial evaluation of the extended-release amantadine capsules (e.g., Gocovri), livedo reticularis was reported in 6% of patients treated with 274 mg/day of extended-release amantadine. Women experienced livedo reticularis more frequently than men (13% vs. 0%). Livedo reticularis can appear 1 month to 1 year from initiation of therapy, and can be an exacerbation of a preexisting condition. Livedo reticularis is believed to be caused by abnormal capillary permeability associated with peripheral vasoconstriction which results in decreased skin temperature and peripheral blood flow. Patients with peripheral edema should be closely monitored since the edema may be indicative of livedo reticularis. Dosage reduction or amantadine discontinuation may be necessary.


blurred vision, cataracts, corneal edema, corneal opacification, keratitis, mydriasis, photophobia, visual impairment, xerophthalmia


Corneal edema has been reported in 0.1 to 1 % of people treated with amantadine in clinical trials and with postmarketing use of amantadine. Symptoms include sudden onset of blurry vision, or progressive vision loss, with or without eye pain. Corneal involvement is usually bilateral. Onset can occur from a few weeks to several years after starting amantadine. Resolution of symptoms typically begins within weeks of amantadine cessation. However, corneal grafts have been required in some people when the condition is not recognized. Permanent damage can occur if amantadine is continued. Obtain ophthalmologic examinations to rule out corneal edema should vision changes occur after initiation of therapy. If corneal edema occurs, taper and discontinue amantadine. During clinical trial evaluation of immediate-release amantadine, diffuse, white, subendothelial or other corneal opacification was reported in 0.1% to 1% of amantadine-treated subjects. After discontinuation the opacities will usually resolve within a few weeks. Other types of visual impairment experienced by 0.1% to 1% of subjects in clinical trials of immediate-release amantadine decreased visual acuity, photophobia (light sensitivity), and optic nerve palsy. During clinical trial evaluation of the extended-release amantadine capsules (e.g., Gocovri), the following ophthalmic effects were reported in at least 3% of subjects treated with 274 mg/day of extended-release amantadine: blurred vision (4%), cataracts (3%), and xerophthalmia (3%). Women experienced cataracts more frequently than men (7% vs. 0%). Blurred vision (3%) led to treatment discontinuation in more subjects receiving amantadine than placebo. Cases of keratitis and mydriasis have been noted during postmarketing use of immediate-release amantadine. Some of these events may be due to the anticholinergic effects associated with amantadine. Because of the anticholinergic side effects and the potential for mydriasis, avoid prescribing amantadine to people with untreated angle-closure glaucoma.


anaphylactoid reactions, diaphoresis, edema, fever, pruritus, rash, skin hyperpigmentation


During clinical trial evaluation of immediate-release amantadine, rash (unspecified) was reported in 0.1% to 1% of amantadine-treated patients. Eczematoid dermatitis occurred in less than 0.1% of patients. During clinical trial evaluation of the extended-release amantadine capsules (e.g., Gocovri), skin hyperpigmentation disorder (unspecified) was reported in 3% of patients treated with 274 mg/day of extended-release amantadine. Dermatologic adverse events reported with immediate-release amantadine include pruritus and diaphoresis. Anaphylactoid reactions, including fever and edema, have also been reported during postmarketing use of immediate-release amantadine. Similar effects should be anticipated with the extended-release formulations. Melanoma has been reported postmarketing, but due to the voluntary nature of these reports, neither a frequency nor a definitive causal relationship can be established; however, studies indicated that patients with Parkinson's disease have a 2- to 6- fold higher risk of developing melanoma than the general population. The cause for this increased risk, whether due to the drug or disease, is unknown. Despite the lack of data, health care providers are advised to perform frequent skin examinations on patients receiving amantadine for any indication.


arthralgia, muscle cramps


During clinical trial evaluation of the extended-release amantadine capsules (e.g., Gocovri), the following adverse musculoskeletal effects were reported in at least 3% of patients treated with 274 mg/day of extended-release amantadine: arthralgia (joint swelling 3%) and muscle spasms (muscle cramps 3%). Involuntary muscle contractions have been reported in postmarketing use of immediate-release amantadine.


agranulocytosis, leukocytosis, leukopenia, neutropenia


During clinical trial evaluation of immediate-release amantadine, leukopenia and neutropenia were reported in less than 0.1% of amantadine-treated patients. Agranulocytosis and leukocytosis have been noted during postmarketing use of immediate-release amantadine. Due to the voluntary nature of postmarketing reports, neither a frequency nor a definitive causal relationship can be established.


infection, libido decrease, urinary retention


During clinical trial evaluation of immediate-release amantadine, adverse genitourinary (GU) effects including urinary retention and libido decrease were reported in 0.1% to 1% of amantadine-treated patients. The anticholinergic effects of amantadine may contribute to adverse reactions such as urinary retention and aggravation of prostatic hypertrophy. During clinical trial evaluation of the extended-release amantadine capsules (e.g., Gocovri), the following adverse GU effects were reported in at least 3% of patients treated with 274 mg/day of extended-release amantadine: urinary tract infection (10%) and benign prostatic hypertrophy (6% of male patients). Amantadine associated anticholinergic effects are more likely to occur in patients with increased plasma concentrations, such as those with renal dysfunction or in the elderly. Deaths have been reported from overdose with amantadine; the lowest reported acute lethal dose was 1 gram. Acute toxicity may be attributable to anticholinergic effects.


elevated hepatic enzymes, hyperbilirubinemia


Laboratory abnormalities noted during postmarketing use of immediate-release amantadine include elevated hepatic enzymes (i.e., ALT and AST), hyperbilirubinemia, and elevations in other laboratory tests including blood urea nitrogen (BUN), serum creatinine, alkaline phosphatase, creatine phosphokinase (CPK), gamma-glutamyltransferase (GGT), and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH). Due to the voluntary nature of postmarketing reports, neither a frequency nor a definitive causal relationship can be established.


antimicrobial resistance


Antimicrobial resistance can occur during therapy with amantadine due to the development of viral mutations. Drug effectiveness may be diminished by resistance mutations or other factors such as viral virulence. Drug susceptibility patterns should be assessed when determining appropriateness of influenza A treatment with amantadine. Current information regarding viral resistance patterns can be obtained from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control (CDC).


infertility


Failed human fertility (infertility) has been reported when amantadine was used during in vitro fertilization; the male sperm donor had used amantadine 2 weeks prior to, and during the fertilization cycle.


neuroleptic malignant syndrome, withdrawal


Avoid abrupt discontinuation of immediate-release or extended-release amantadine in patients with Parkinson disease. A withdrawal symptom complex resembling neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) (characterized by elevated temperature, muscular rigidity, altered consciousness, and autonomic instability), with no other obvious etiology, has been reported in association with rapid dose reduction, withdrawal of, or changes in drugs that increase central dopaminergic tone. Abrupt discontinuation of amantadine in these patients may cause an increase in the symptoms of Parkinson disease or cause delirium, agitation, delusions, hallucinations, paranoid reaction, stupor, anxiety, depression, or slurred speech. Treatment of NMS includes medical monitoring, intensive symptomatic therapy, and treatment of concomitant serious medical problems. Despite a lack of data from controlled trials, bromocriptine and dantrolene have been used in the treatment of NMS.


Description

Amantadine is a synthetic antiviral agent with dopamine agonist properties. The drug is approved for the prophylaxis and treatment of influenza A; however, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommends against using amantadine due to the development of resistant strains. Amantadine is also indicated for the treatment of drug-induced extrapyramidal reactions and motor symptoms associated with Parkinson's disease. Additionally, an extended-release capsule is approved for the treatment of dyskinesia in patients with Parkinson's disease receiving levodopa-based therapy and as an adjunct to carbidopa; levodopa in patients with Parkinson's disease experiencing 'off' episodes. Amantadine may be used off-label for multiple sclerosis-associated fatigue, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, and chorea associated with Huntington's Disease. During treatment of chronic conditions, practitioners should monitor for anticholinergic effects, new or worsening impulse control symptoms, or patient reports of falling asleep during activities of daily living.

Mechanism Of Action

The mechanism by which amantadine exerts an effect in the treatment of dyskinesia associated with Parkinson's disease or as an adjunct to carbidopa; levodopa in patients with Parkinson's disease experiencing 'off' episodes is unknown. Antiparkinsonian actions are unrelated to the antiviral effects. Amantadine is a weak, uncompetitive antagonist of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor. In addition, the drug may have direct or indirect effects on dopamine neurons. It may release dopamine and norepinephrine from storage sites and inhibit the reuptake of dopamine and norepinephrine. Overall, amantadine is less effective than levodopa but can offer specific benefits such as in patients with levodopa-induced dyskinesia. Anticholinergic-like side effects have been reported and are usually more prominent in elderly patients.
 
As an antiviral, amantadine can inhibit viral replication within viral-infected cells. Amantadine appears to block the uncoating of the virus particle and subsequent release of viral nucleic acid into the host cell. This process is thought to be caused by interference with fusion of the virion coat to vacuolar membranes. Amantadine also may interfere with penetration of the cell wall by adsorbed virus. To prevent a viral infection, the drug should be present before exposure to the virus, but, if given within 24 to 48 hours of onset of symptoms, the influenza may be less severe. However, the CDC recommends against using for influenza A due to resistance in circulating strains. As in recent past seasons, there continues to be high levels of resistance (more than 99%) to adamantane agents such as amantadine among influenza A viruses. Therefore, amantadine is not recommended for antiviral treatment or chemoprophylaxis of currently circulating influenza A viruses. Check for current information on the CDC website.

Pharmacokinetics

Amantadine is administered orally as immediate-release or extended-release formulations. The extended-release tablet (e.g., Osmolex ER) consists of an immediate-release outer layer and an extended-release core. The extended-release capsule (e.g., Gocovri) contains extended-release pellets within the capsule. Amantadine crosses the blood-brain barrier and distributes into tears, saliva, and nasal secretions. Protein binding is not clinically significant (about 67%). Some data suggest potential extravascular distribution. Amantadine is primarily excreted as the parent compound in the urine via glomerular filtration and tubular secretion. Eight metabolites of amantadine have been identified in human urine. One metabolite, an N-acetylated compound, was quantified in human urine and accounted for up to 15% of the administered dose in multiple studies. The contribution of this metabolite to the efficacy or toxicity of amantadine is not known. The average elimination half-life in adult patients with normal renal function is about 17 hours. Acidifying the urine increases the rate of excretion.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 (CYP450) isoenzymes and drug transporters: None

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route

Amantadine is well absorbed orally. Bioavailability is 86% in the elderly and greater than 90% in young adults. Maximum plasma concentrations of the immediate-release formulation are directly related to doses up to 200 mg/day. Doses above 200 mg/day may result in a greater than proportional increase in maximum concentrations. The pharmacokinetics of the extended-release capsules and extended-release tablets are dose proportional with therapeutic dosing. The average time to peak plasma concentrations of the immediate-release formulation is about 3 hours (range: 1.5 to 8 hours). After a single bedtime dose of the extended-release capsule, the median time to maximum plasma concentrations is about 12 hours (range: 6 to 20 hours). Peak concentrations of the extended-release tablets occur in a median time of 7.5 hours (range: 5.5 to 12 hours). Steady-state concentrations of immediate-release amantadine following daily dosing are obtained in 2 to 4 days. Steady-state concentrations of the extended-release capsules are achieved 4 days after dose initiation. Administration with food does not alter the kinetics of amantadine; therefore, the various products may be administered without regard to meals.

Hepatic Impairment

Formal pharmacokinetic evaluations of amantadine use in patients with hepatic disease have not been conducted; amantadine is primarily eliminated unchanged in the urine.

Renal Impairment

Compared with healthy adults, the clearance of amantadine is significantly reduced in adults with moderate to severe renal impairment. The elimination half-life increases 2- to 3-fold or greater when the creatinine clearance is less than 40 mL/minute and averages 8 days in patients on chronic maintenance hemodialysis. In pharmacokinetic simulations, the range of the total exposure in subjects with normal renal function (CrCl greater than 90 mL/minute) or mild renal impairment (CrCl 60 to 89 mL/minute) was comparable. However, patients with moderate to severe renal impairment had higher exposures relative to patients with normal renal function or mild renal impairment. Amantadine is removed in negligible amounts by hemodialysis. The manufacturers of the extended-release capsules (e.g., Gocovri) and extended-release tablets (e.g., Osmolex ER) contraindicate the use of the drug in patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD). Dosage adjustments of the extended-release formulations are required in patients with moderate to severe renal disease.

Pediatrics

There are no pediatric pharmacokinetic data available from the manufacturers. Weight-based dosing is used in pediatric patients 1 year and older. The safety and efficacy of immediate-release amantadine in newborns and infants below the age of 1 year have not been established. The extended-release capsules (e.g., Gocovri) and extended-release tablets (e.g., Osmolex ER) are not approved in pediatric patients.

Geriatric

The apparent oral plasma clearance of amantadine is reduced and the plasma half-life and plasma concentrations are increased in healthy geriatric adults 60 years of age and older compared to younger adults. After administration of a single 25 mg to 75 mg dose of immediate-release amantadine to healthy, elderly male volunteers (n = 7), the average half-life was 29 hours (range: 20 to 41 hours). In a separate pharmacokinetic evaluation of 24 younger adult male volunteers who received a single 100 mg dose of immediate-release amantadine, the average half-life was 17 hours (range: 10 to 25 hours). Whether these changes are due to decline in renal function or other age related factors is not known. No dose adjustment of the extended-release capsules (e.g., Gocovri) or extended-release tablets (e.g., Osmolex ER) is recommended on the basis of age; however, because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function, care should be taken in dose selection, and it may be useful to monitor renal function. The manufacturer of immediate-release amantadine recommends a dose reduction in individuals who are 65 years of age or older.

Gender Differences

In a study of young healthy subjects (n = 20), the mean renal clearance of amantadine normalized for body mass index was significantly higher in males (1.5-fold) compared to females; however, no dosage adjustments of amantadine are recommended based on gender.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Oral Administration
Oral Solid Formulations

Immediate-release capsules or tablets
May be administered without regard to meals.
 
Extended-release capsules (e.g., Gocovri)
Not interchangeable with other extended-release amantadine products.
Can be taken with or without food.
Patients should swallow the extended-release capsules whole. They should not crush, chew, or divide capsules.
If needed, may be administered by carefully opening and sprinkling the entire contents of capsule on a small amount (teaspoonful) of soft food, such as cool applesauce. The drug/food mixture should be swallowed immediately without chewing. Do not store mixture for future use.
Missed dose: If a dose is missed, it is recommended to skip the missed dose. The next dose should be taken as scheduled.
 
Extended-release tablets (e.g., Osmolex ER)
May be administered without regard to meals.
Swallow tablets whole; do not chew, crush, or divide tablets.
Osmolex ER has a nonabsorbable shell designed to release the drug at a controlled rate. The tablet shell is eliminated from the body; patients should not be concerned if they occasionally notice the tablet shell in their stool.


Oral Liquid Formulations

Oral solution
Administer each dose using a calibrated oral measuring device to ensure accurate dosing.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

400 mg/day PO for immediate-release capsules, oral solution, or tablets; 274 mg/day PO for extended-release capsules; 322 mg/day PO for extended-release tablets.

Geriatric

400 mg/day PO for immediate-release capsules, oral solution, or tablets; 274 mg/day PO for extended-release capsules; 322 mg/day PO for extended-release tablets.

Adolescents

Immediate-release capsules, oral solution or tablets: 200 mg/day PO.
Extended-release capsules or tablets: Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Children

9 years and older: 200 mg/day PO for immediate-release capsules, oral solution, or tablets. Safety and efficacy of extended-release capsules and tablets have not been established.
1 to 8 years: 8.8 mg/kg/day PO or 150 mg/day PO, whichever is less for immediate-release capsules, oral solution, or tablets. Safety and efficacy of extended-release capsules and tablets have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

A.A.G.C. in TeroDerm Cream Compounding Kit

Amantadine Hydrochloride 100mg Oral capsule

Amantadine Hydrochloride 100mg Oral tablet

Amantadine Hydrochloride 50mg/5mL Oral solution

Amantadine Hydrochloride Bulk powder

EXTARDOL 8g/6g/3g/3g/5g Topical Cream Compounding Kit

Gapeam Budibac 16.5g/16.5g/13.2g/8.25g/4.9g/3.25g/3.25g Compounding Kit

GOCOVRI 137mg Extended-Release Capsule

GOCOVRI 68.5mg Extended-Release Capsule

OSMOLEX ER 129mg Extended-Release Tablet

Osmolex ER 193mg Extended-Release Tablet

Osmolex ER 258mg Extended-Release Tablet

Osmolex ER 322mg Daily Dosing Kit Extended-Release Tablet

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Amantadine is primarily excreted in the urine unchanged. Dosage adjustments do not appear to be necessary for immediate-release products. Recommendations for the extended-release capsules or tablets are not available.

Renal Impairment

Immediate-release capsules, oral solution, or tablets in adults (e.g., Symmetrel):
CrCl greater than 50 mL/minute: No dosage adjustment needed.
CrCl 30 to 50 mL/minute: 200 mg PO for 1st day, then reduce dose to 100 mg PO daily.
CrCl 15 to 29 mL/minute: 200 mg PO for 1st day, then reduce dose to 100 mg PO on alternate days.
CrCl less than 15 mL/minute: 200 mg every 7 days.
 
Extended-release capsules in adults (e.g., Gocovri):
CrCl 60 mL/minute or greater: No dosage adjustment needed.
CrCl 30 to 59 mL/minute: 68.5 mg PO once daily at bedtime. Increase if needed after 1 week to a maximum of 137 mg once daily at bedtime.
CrCl 15 to 29 mL/minute: 68.5 mg PO once daily at bedtime.
CrCl less than 15 mL/minute: Use is contraindicated.
 
Extended-release tablets in adults (e.g., Osmolex ER):
CrCl 60 mL/minute or greater: No dosage adjustment needed.
CrCl 30 to 59 mL/minute: 129 mg PO once every 48 hours initially. May increase every 3 weeks up to a maximum of 322 mg once every 48 hours.
CrCl 15 to 29 mL/minute: 129 mg PO once every 96 hours initially. May increase every 4 weeks up to a maximum of 322 mg once every 96 hours.
CrCl less than 15 mL/minute: Use is contraindicated.
 
Intermittent hemodialysis
Amantadine is inefficiently removed by hemodialysis.
Immediate-release capsules, oral solution, or tablets (e.g., Symmetrel): 200 mg PO every 7 days in adults.
Extended-release capsules (e.g., Gocovri) or tablets (e.g., Osmolex ER): Use is contraindicated in patients with end-stage renal disease.

© 2026 Elsevier