=== Darifenacin (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 2242)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Darifenacin is an oral competitive, selective M3 muscarinic receptor antagonist administered once daily to treat overactive bladder (OAB) and its symptoms in adults.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 15 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): asthenia, dizziness, drowsiness, headache, confusion, hallucinations, palpitations, arthralgia, back pain, hypertension, peripheral edema, pharyngitis, pruritus, rash (unspecified), rhinitis, vaginitis, weight gain, anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, erythema multiforme

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Darifenacin is contraindicated in patients who have demonstrated hypersensitivity to the drug or its ingredients. Due to the anticholinergic effects, darifenacin is contraindicated in patients with urinary retention.

Brand Names
  - Enablex

Dosage Forms
  - Darifenacin 15mg Oral tablet, extended release
  - Darifenacin 7.5mg Oral tablet, extended release
  - Enablex 7.5mg Extended-Release Tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        7.5 mg PO once daily, initially. May increase the dose to 15 mg PO once daily after 2 weeks based on clinical response. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.
    Heading
    For the treatment of overactive bladder (OAB) with symptoms of urge urinary incontinence, urinary urgency, and urinary frequency

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Darifenacin is contraindicated in patients who have demonstrated hypersensitivity to the drug or its ingredients.
 
Due to the anticholinergic effects, darifenacin is contraindicated in patients with urinary retention. Anticholinergics may precipitate urinary retention in patients with preexisting urinary tract obstruction or prostatic hypertrophy, so caution is warranted. Use with caution in other patients with significant renal disease.
 
Darifenacin has a direct antispasmodic effect on smooth muscle that can delay gastric emptying; it is contraindicated in patients with gastric retention (i.e., GI obstruction, pyloric stenosis, gastroparesis). Darifenacin is not recommended for use in the setting of ileus, toxic megacolon, severe ulcerative colitis, or severe constipation. In general, gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) may be aggravated by the use of anticholinergic medications.
 
Darifenacin is contraindicated in patients with uncontrolled narrow-angle or closed-angle glaucoma. Darifenacin may increase intraocular pressure and aqueous outflow resistance in patients with treated closed-angle glaucoma so caution is advised in these patients; initiate treatment with darifenacin only if potential benefits outweigh risks. Darifenacin is not contraindicated in patients with chronic open-angle glaucoma. The anticholinergic effects of darifenacin may make the eyes dry and this can cause irritation for wearers of contact lenses.
 
Patients receiving darifenacin in combination with other anticholinergic medications may experience an increased frequency or severity of dry mouth, constipation, blurred vision, or other anticholinergic effects (see Drug Interactions).
 
Patients should be advised to use caution when driving or operating machinery while receiving darifenacin until the effects of the drug are known. Anticholinergic drugs in general can cause blurred vision, dizziness, or somnolence in some patients. However, in clinical trials of darifenacin, central nervous system related side effects were minimal; changes in EEGs and cognitive function and the incidence of blurred vision were comparable to placebo and tolterodine. Dizziness and somnolence were reported with an incidence of <= 2% in the largest phase III study of darifenacin. Continued precautions with driving or other tasks are not expected.
 
Moderate hepatic disease (Child Pugh B) can alter the disposition of darifenacin; the total daily dose of darifenacin should not exceed 7.5 mg in patients with moderate hepatic disease (see Dosage). Darifenacin has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic disease (Child Pugh C) and its use in these patients is not recommended.Anticholinergics in general may exacerbate the clinical symptoms of patients with myasthenia gravis or autonomic neuropathy.
 
Darifenacin is classified in FDA pregnancy risk category C. There are no studies of darifenacin in pregnant women; however, darifenacin, at a dose of 50 mg/kg in rats (59 times the AUC at maximum recommended human doses), caused a delay in the ossification of the sacral and caudal vertebrae. In addition, in rabbits, a dose of 30 mg/kg (28 times the AUC at maximum recommended human doses), increased post-implantation loss; in addition, dilated ureters and/or kidney pelvis' was observed in their offspring. Finally, dystocia was observed in rams at a dose equivalent to 17 times the AUC at the maximum recommended human dose with slight developmental delays in the pups. Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response, darifenacin should only be used in pregnancy if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus.
 
Darifenacin is excreted into the milk of lactating rats. It is not known whether or not this drug is excreted into human milk; caution is advised when darifenacin is administered to a woman who is breast-feeding. Darifenacin should be used during breast-feeding only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the baby.
 
Per the manufacturer, the safe and effective use of darifenacin in children has not been established.
 
During phase III clinical trials, 30% of patients were 65 years of age or older. Clearance of darifenacin decreases with age (6% per decade relative to a median age of 44) with exposure of darifenacin 12—19% higher in volunteers aged 45—65 years compared to younger volunteers aged 18—44 years. No overall difference in safety or efficacy was observed; dosage adjustments in elderly patients are not recommended. However, elderly patients may be more sensitive to the anticholinergic effects of drugs regardless of drug exposure. Monitor elderly patients for increased anticholinergic effects and consider dosage adjustments if these effects are experienced.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. There is little evidence in the literature regarding cross-reactivity among the antimuscarinics for overactive bladder (OAB) if an allergic response has previously been noted, unless the medications share chemical similarities, like chemical structure or similar metabolites. Some publications recommend avoidance of other agents in the class if a serious allergic response has occurred.
    Headline
    bladder obstruction, prostatic hypertrophy, urinary retention
    General Information
    Darifenacin is contraindicated in people with urinary retention. People with clinically significant bladder obstruction or incomplete bladder emptying, such as people with benign prostatic hypertrophy (BPH), may be at increased risk of urinary retention. Monitor darifenacin recipients for symptoms of urinary retention and consider discontinuation of treatment if urinary retention occurs.
    Headline
    constipation, gastroparesis, GI obstruction, myasthenia gravis, ulcerative colitis
    General Information
    Darifenacin is contraindicated in people with gastric retention (e.g., gastroparesis). Darifenacin should be used with caution in people with GI obstructive disorders (i.e., mechanical GI obstruction, paralytic ileus) due to the risk of gastric retention. Darifenacin, like other anticholinergic drugs, may decrease gastrointestinal motility and should be used with caution in patients with conditions such as severe constipation, ulcerative colitis, and myasthenia gravis.
    Headline
    activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery
    General Information
    Advise darifenacin recipients to avoid driving or operating machinery or completing activities requiring coordination and concentration until they know how darifenacin will affect them. Anticholinergic drugs, including darifenacin, are associated with anticholinergic central nervous system (CNS) effects, including confusion, dizziness, somnolence, and blurred vision. Monitor patients for signs of anticholinergic CNS effects, particularly after initiating treatment with darifenacin or with dosage increases. If a patient experiences anticholinergic CNS effects, consider dosage reduction or discontinuation of the medication.
    Headline
    Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure
    General Information
    Dosage adjustment of darifenacin is recommended for people with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class B). No adjustment is necessary for people with mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class A). Darifenacin has not been studied in people with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C) or hepatic failure and is not recommended in this patient population.
    Headline
    geriatric
    General Information
    The Beers Criteria consider antimuscarinics with strong anticholinergic properties, such as darifenacin, as potentially inappropriate medications (PIMs) in geriatric adults with dementia/cognitive impairment (adverse CNS effects) or delirium/high risk of delirium (new-onset or worsening delirium). During clinical trials, no overall difference in safety or efficacy was observed when comparing older with younger adults. However, older adults may be more sensitive to the anticholinergic effects of darifenacin; monitor and consider dosage adjustments if anticholinergic effects are experienced.
    Headline
    closed-angle glaucoma
    General Information
    Darifenacin is contraindicated in people with uncontrolled narrow-angle glaucoma (closed-angle glaucoma) and should be used with caution in those being treated for narrow-angle glaucoma. Darifenacin may increase intraocular pressure and aqueous outflow resistance in people with controlled (treated) closed-angle glaucoma.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no data available regarding the use of darifenacin during human pregnancy to evaluate for a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriages, or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. Use during pregnancy only if clearly needed. Darifenacin was not teratogenic in rats and rabbits at plasma exposures of free drug (via AUC) up to 59-times and 28-times, respectively (doses up to 50 and 30 mg/kg/day, respectively) the maximum recommended human dose [MRHD] of 15 mg. At approximately 59-times the MRHD in rats, there was a delay in the ossification of the sacral and caudal vertebrae which was not observed at approximately 13-times the AUC. Dystocia was observed in dams at approximately 17-times the AUC (10 mg/kg/day). Slight developmental delays were observed in pups at this dose. At 5-times the AUC (3 mg/kg/day), there were no effects on dams or pups. In rabbits, an exposure approximately 28-times (30 mg/kg/day) the MRHD of darifenacin was shown to increase post-implantation loss, with a no effect level at 9-times (10 mg/kg/day) the AUC at the MRHD. Dilated ureter and/or kidney pelvis was also observed in offspring at this dose along with urinary bladder dilation consistent with the pharmacological action of darifenacin, with 1 case observed at 9-times (10 mg/kg/day) the MRHD. No effect was observed at approximately 2.8 times (3 mg/kg/day) the AUC at the MRHD.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use darifenacin with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data available on the presence of darifenacin in human milk, the effects on the breastfed infant, or the effects on milk production. Darifenacin is excreted into the milk of rats. The chemical structure of darifenacin would probably limit its transfer to milk, but chronic use of darifenacin might reduce milk production. The breastfed infant should be monitored for anticholinergic side effects. Consider the developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding along with the clinical need for darifenacin and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from the drug or the underlying maternal condition.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no data available regarding the use of darifenacin during human pregnancy to evaluate for a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriages, or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. Use during pregnancy only if clearly needed. Darifenacin was not teratogenic in rats and rabbits at plasma exposures of free drug (via AUC) up to 59-times and 28-times, respectively (doses up to 50 and 30 mg/kg/day, respectively) the maximum recommended human dose [MRHD] of 15 mg. At approximately 59-times the MRHD in rats, there was a delay in the ossification of the sacral and caudal vertebrae which was not observed at approximately 13-times the AUC. Dystocia was observed in dams at approximately 17-times the AUC (10 mg/kg/day). Slight developmental delays were observed in pups at this dose. At 5-times the AUC (3 mg/kg/day), there were no effects on dams or pups. In rabbits, an exposure approximately 28-times (30 mg/kg/day) the MRHD of darifenacin was shown to increase post-implantation loss, with a no effect level at 9-times (10 mg/kg/day) the AUC at the MRHD. Dilated ureter and/or kidney pelvis was also observed in offspring at this dose along with urinary bladder dilation consistent with the pharmacological action of darifenacin, with 1 case observed at 9-times (10 mg/kg/day) the MRHD. No effect was observed at approximately 2.8 times (3 mg/kg/day) the AUC at the MRHD.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use darifenacin with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data available on the presence of darifenacin in human milk, the effects on the breastfed infant, or the effects on milk production. Darifenacin is excreted into the milk of rats. The chemical structure of darifenacin would probably limit its transfer to milk, but chronic use of darifenacin might reduce milk production. The breastfed infant should be monitored for anticholinergic side effects. Consider the developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding along with the clinical need for darifenacin and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from the drug or the underlying maternal condition.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Minor) Consuming > 400 mg/day caffeine has been associated with the development of urinary incontinence. Caffeine may aggravate bladder symptoms, increase urination, and counteract the effectiveness of darifenacin to some degree. Patients may wish to limit their intake of caffeinated drugs, dietary supplements (e.g., guarana), or beverages (e.g., green tea, other teas, coffee, colas).
Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Minor) Consuming > 400 mg/day caffeine has been associated with the development of urinary incontinence. Caffeine may aggravate bladder symptoms, increase urination, and counteract the effectiveness of darifenacin to some degree. Patients may wish to limit their intake of caffeinated drugs, dietary supplements (e.g., guarana), or beverages (e.g., green tea, other teas, coffee, colas).
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of dihydrocodeine with darifenacin may increase dihydrocodeine plasma concentrations, but decrease the plasma concentration of the active metabolite, dihydromorphine, resulting in reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal. Consider alternative therapy to dihydrocodeine when the opioid is used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage increase of dihydrocodeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of darifenacin could decrease dihydrocodeine plasma concentrations and increase dihydromorphine plasma concentrations resulting in prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If darifenacin is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider reducing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Dihydrocodeine has similar pharmacokinetics to codeine and is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to dihydromorphine, and by CYP3A4. Darifenacin is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6. In addition, the concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Darifenacin has anticholinergic actions that may produce additive effects. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known. (Minor) Consuming > 400 mg/day caffeine has been associated with the development of urinary incontinence. Caffeine may aggravate bladder symptoms, increase urination, and counteract the effectiveness of darifenacin to some degree. Patients may wish to limit their intake of caffeinated drugs, dietary supplements (e.g., guarana), or beverages (e.g., green tea, other teas, coffee, colas).
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Minor) Consuming > 400 mg/day caffeine has been associated with the development of urinary incontinence. Caffeine may aggravate bladder symptoms, increase urination, and counteract the effectiveness of darifenacin to some degree. Patients may wish to limit their intake of caffeinated drugs, dietary supplements (e.g., guarana), or beverages (e.g., green tea, other teas, coffee, colas).
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Minor) Use of dextromethorphan with darifenacin may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Darifenacin is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Minor) Use of dextromethorphan with darifenacin may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Darifenacin is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) Use of dextromethorphan with darifenacin may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Darifenacin is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with darifenacin may increase codeine plasma concentrations, but decrease the plasma concentration of the active metabolite, morphine, resulting in reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal. Avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough; consider alternative therapy for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage increase of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of darifenacin could decrease codeine plasma concentrations and increase morphine plasma concentrations resulting in prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If darifenacin is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider reducing the codeine dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Darifenacin is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6. In addition, the concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Darifenacin has anticholinergic actions that may produce additive effects. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan: (Minor) Use of dextromethorphan with darifenacin may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Darifenacin is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Minor) Use of dextromethorphan with darifenacin may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Darifenacin is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Minor) Use of dextromethorphan with darifenacin may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Darifenacin is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) Use of dextromethorphan with darifenacin may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Darifenacin is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Minor) Use of dextromethorphan with darifenacin may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Darifenacin is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) Use of dextromethorphan with darifenacin may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Darifenacin is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with darifenacin may increase hydrocodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions, including a risk for hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Avoid use of hydrocodone when it is being used for cough; consider alternative agents for cough treatment. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of hydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of darifenacin could decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to hydrocodone. If darifenacin is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP2D6. Darifenacin is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6. In addition, the concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Darifenacin has anticholinergic actions that may produce additive effects. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when darifenacin, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Adagrasib: (Moderate) The daily dose of darifenacin should not exceed 7.5 mg PO when administered with adagrasib due to increased darifenacin exposure. Darifenacin is a CYP3A substrate; adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when darifenacin, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Amantadine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with antimuscarinic properties like darifenacin are used concomitantly with amantadine.
aMILoride: (Minor) Diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Amitriptyline: (Moderate) The exposure to tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) may be increased when coadministered with darifenacin. Appropriate monitoring and dose adjustment may be necessary. Darifenacin is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor; TCAs are CYP2D6 substrates.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Monitor patients closely for darifenacin-related adverse reactions and consider a dosage reduction of darifenacin if coadministration with celecoxib is necessary. Celecoxib may enhance the systemic exposure and toxicity of darifenacin. In vitro studies indicate that celecoxib is an inhibitor of CYP2D6. Darifenacin is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Amoxapine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of amoxapine, such as increased anticholinergic effects, if coadministered with darifenacin. Coadministration may increase serum concentrations of amoxapine. Amoxapine is a CYP2D6 substrate; darifenacin is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Moderate) The daily dose of darifenacin should not exceed 7.5 mg PO when administered with clarithromycin due to increased darifenacin exposure. Darifenacin is a CYP3A4 substrate; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Moderate) Use caution if darifenacin and aprepitant, fosaprepitant are used concurrently and monitor for an increase in darifenacin-related adverse effects for several days after administration of a multi-day aprepitant regimen. Darifenacin is a CYP3A4 substrate. Aprepitant, when administered as a 3-day oral regimen (125 mg/80 mg/80 mg), is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and inducer and may increase plasma concentrations of darifenacin. For example, a 5-day oral aprepitant regimen increased the AUC of another CYP3A4 substrate, midazolam (single dose), by 2.3-fold on day 1 and by 3.3-fold on day 5. After a 3-day oral aprepitant regimen, the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1, 4, 8, and 15) increased by 25% on day 4, and then decreased by 19% and 4% on days 8 and 15, respectively. As a single 125 mg or 40 mg oral dose, the inhibitory effect of aprepitant on CYP3A4 is weak, with the AUC of midazolam increased by 1.5-fold and 1.2-fold, respectively. After administration, fosaprepitant is rapidly converted to aprepitant and shares many of the same drug interactions. However, as a single 150 mg intravenous dose, fosaprepitant only weakly inhibits CYP3A4 for a duration of 2 days; there is no evidence of CYP3A4 induction. Fosaprepitant 150 mg IV as a single dose increased the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1 and 4) by approximately 1.8-fold on day 1; there was no effect on day 4. Less than a 2-fold increase in the midazolam AUC is not considered clinically important.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of darifenacin. Patients receiving both a CYP3A inhibitor plus darifenacin may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form and CYP3A inhibitor strength. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; darifenacin is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Artemether; Lumefantrine: (Moderate) Lumefantrine is an inhibitor and darifenacin is a substrate of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased darifenacin concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Minor) Consuming > 400 mg/day caffeine has been associated with the development of urinary incontinence. Caffeine may aggravate bladder symptoms, increase urination, and counteract the effectiveness of darifenacin to some degree. Patients may wish to limit their intake of caffeinated drugs, dietary supplements (e.g., guarana), or beverages (e.g., green tea, other teas, coffee, colas).
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Minor) Consuming > 400 mg/day caffeine has been associated with the development of urinary incontinence. Caffeine may aggravate bladder symptoms, increase urination, and counteract the effectiveness of darifenacin to some degree. Patients may wish to limit their intake of caffeinated drugs, dietary supplements (e.g., guarana), or beverages (e.g., green tea, other teas, coffee, colas).
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with antimuscarinic properties like darifenacin are used concomitantly with orphenadrine. (Minor) Consuming > 400 mg/day caffeine has been associated with the development of urinary incontinence. Caffeine may aggravate bladder symptoms, increase urination, and counteract the effectiveness of darifenacin to some degree. Patients may wish to limit their intake of caffeinated drugs, dietary supplements (e.g., guarana), or beverages (e.g., green tea, other teas, coffee, colas).
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with darifenacin may increase codeine plasma concentrations, but decrease the plasma concentration of the active metabolite, morphine, resulting in reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal. Avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough; consider alternative therapy for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage increase of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of darifenacin could decrease codeine plasma concentrations and increase morphine plasma concentrations resulting in prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If darifenacin is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider reducing the codeine dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Darifenacin is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6. In addition, the concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Darifenacin has anticholinergic actions that may produce additive effects. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when darifenacin, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Atazanavir: (Moderate) The daily dose of darifenacin should not exceed 7.5 mg PO when administered with atazanavir due to increased darifenacin exposure. Darifenacin is a CYP3A4 substrate; atazanavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) The daily dose of darifenacin should not exceed 7.5 mg PO when administered with cobicistat due to increased darifenacin exposure. Darifenacin is a CYP3A4 substrate; cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. (Moderate) The daily dose of darifenacin should not exceed 7.5 mg PO when administered with atazanavir due to increased darifenacin exposure. Darifenacin is a CYP3A4 substrate; atazanavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Moderate) Antidiarrheals (e.g., atropine; diphenoxylate, atropine; difenoxin, or loperamide) decrease GI motility. Agents that inhibit intestinal motility or prolong intestinal transit time have been rarely reported to induce toxic megacolon. Constipation and dry mouth are reported side effects of darifenacin. Additive GI, CNS, or other anticholinergic effects may occur if used concomitantly.
Avacopan: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of darifenacin if coadministered with avacopan. Coadministration may increase the exposure of darifenacin. Darifenacin is a sensitive CYP3A substrate; avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Belladonna; Opium: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when darifenacin, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Use of darifenacin with benzhydrocodone may increase hydrocodone concentrations. Benzhydrocodone is a prodrug of hydrocodone. Use together may prolong opioid adverse reactions, including a risk for hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of benzhydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of darifenacin could decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence. If darifenacin is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Benzhydrocodone is a prodrug that is converted to hydrocodone, and hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP2D6. Darifenacin is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6. In addition, the concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Darifenacin has anticholinergic actions that may produce additive effects. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Berotralstat: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of darifenacin if coadministered with berotralstat. Coadministration may increase the exposure of darifenacin. Darifenacin is a sensitive CYP3A substrate; berotralstat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of darifenacin if coadministered with lenacapavir. Coadministration may increase the exposure of darifenacin. Darifenacin is a sensitive CYP3A substrate; lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Brexpiprazole: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of darifenacin with brexpiprazole is necessary, as the systemic exposure of brexpiprazole may be increased resulting in an increase in brexpiprazole-related adverse reactions. Reduce the dose of brexpiprazole to one-quarter (25%) of the usual dose if brexpiprazole and darifenacin are coadministered with a moderate to strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. If darifenacin is discontinued, adjust the brexpiprazole dosage to its original level. Darifenacin is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor. Brexpiprazole is a CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 substrate. Concomitant use of moderate CYP2D6 inhibitors with a strong or moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the exposure of brexpiprazole compared to use of brexpiprazole alone.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Minor) Use of dextromethorphan with darifenacin may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Darifenacin is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Minor) Use of dextromethorphan with darifenacin may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Darifenacin is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Bumetanide: (Minor) Diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
buPROPion: (Moderate) Bupropion, an inhibitor of CYP2D6 may inhibit the metabolism of darifenacin. In addition, bupropion is associated with moderate anticholinergic effects which could be additive when coadministered with darifenacin. Patients should be monitored for increased anticholinergic effects or other adverse effects when these two drugs are coadministered. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
buPROPion; Naltrexone: (Moderate) Bupropion, an inhibitor of CYP2D6 may inhibit the metabolism of darifenacin. In addition, bupropion is associated with moderate anticholinergic effects which could be additive when coadministered with darifenacin. Patients should be monitored for increased anticholinergic effects or other adverse effects when these two drugs are coadministered. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Minor) Consuming > 400 mg/day caffeine has been associated with the development of urinary incontinence. Caffeine may aggravate bladder symptoms, increase urination, and counteract the effectiveness of darifenacin to some degree. Patients may wish to limit their intake of caffeinated drugs, dietary supplements (e.g., guarana), or beverages (e.g., green tea, other teas, coffee, colas).
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with darifenacin may increase codeine plasma concentrations, but decrease the plasma concentration of the active metabolite, morphine, resulting in reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal. Avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough; consider alternative therapy for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage increase of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of darifenacin could decrease codeine plasma concentrations and increase morphine plasma concentrations resulting in prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If darifenacin is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider reducing the codeine dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Darifenacin is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6. In addition, the concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Darifenacin has anticholinergic actions that may produce additive effects. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known. (Minor) Consuming > 400 mg/day caffeine has been associated with the development of urinary incontinence. Caffeine may aggravate bladder symptoms, increase urination, and counteract the effectiveness of darifenacin to some degree. Patients may wish to limit their intake of caffeinated drugs, dietary supplements (e.g., guarana), or beverages (e.g., green tea, other teas, coffee, colas).
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with darifenacin may increase codeine plasma concentrations, but decrease the plasma concentration of the active metabolite, morphine, resulting in reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal. Avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough; consider alternative therapy for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage increase of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of darifenacin could decrease codeine plasma concentrations and increase morphine plasma concentrations resulting in prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If darifenacin is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider reducing the codeine dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Darifenacin is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6. In addition, the concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Darifenacin has anticholinergic actions that may produce additive effects. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known. (Minor) Consuming > 400 mg/day caffeine has been associated with the development of urinary incontinence. Caffeine may aggravate bladder symptoms, increase urination, and counteract the effectiveness of darifenacin to some degree. Patients may wish to limit their intake of caffeinated drugs, dietary supplements (e.g., guarana), or beverages (e.g., green tea, other teas, coffee, colas).
Caffeine: (Minor) Consuming > 400 mg/day caffeine has been associated with the development of urinary incontinence. Caffeine may aggravate bladder symptoms and counteract the effectiveness of darifenacin to some degree. Patients may wish to limit their intake of caffeinated drugs, dietary supplements (e.g., guarana), or beverages (e.g., green tea, other teas, coffee, colas). (Minor) Consuming > 400 mg/day caffeine has been associated with the development of urinary incontinence. Caffeine may aggravate bladder symptoms, increase urination, and counteract the effectiveness of darifenacin to some degree. Patients may wish to limit their intake of caffeinated drugs, dietary supplements (e.g., guarana), or beverages (e.g., green tea, other teas, coffee, colas).
Caffeine; Sodium Benzoate: (Minor) Consuming > 400 mg/day caffeine has been associated with the development of urinary incontinence. Caffeine may aggravate bladder symptoms, increase urination, and counteract the effectiveness of darifenacin to some degree. Patients may wish to limit their intake of caffeinated drugs, dietary supplements (e.g., guarana), or beverages (e.g., green tea, other teas, coffee, colas).
Celecoxib: (Moderate) Monitor patients closely for darifenacin-related adverse reactions and consider a dosage reduction of darifenacin if coadministration with celecoxib is necessary. Celecoxib may enhance the systemic exposure and toxicity of darifenacin. In vitro studies indicate that celecoxib is an inhibitor of CYP2D6. Darifenacin is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Coadministration of darifenacin with tramadol may decrease tramadol metabolism resulting in decreased tramadol efficacy and/or increased tramadol-induced risks for respiratory depression, serotonin syndrome, or seizures. Tramadol is a CYP2D6 substrate; darifenacin is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor. The analgesic activity of tramadol is due to the activity of both the parent drug and the O-desmethyltramadol metabolite (M1), and M1 formation is dependent on CYP2D6. Therefore, use of tramadol with a CYP2D6-inhibitor may alter tramadol efficacy. In addition, inhibition of CYP2D6 metabolism is expected to result in reduced metabolic clearance of tramadol that may increase the risk of tramadol-related adverse events including respiratory depression, serotonin syndrome, and seizures. In addition, the concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates such as tramadol increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known. (Moderate) Monitor patients closely for darifenacin-related adverse reactions and consider a dosage reduction of darifenacin if coadministration with celecoxib is necessary. Celecoxib may enhance the systemic exposure and toxicity of darifenacin. In vitro studies indicate that celecoxib is an inhibitor of CYP2D6. Darifenacin is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Ceritinib: (Moderate) The daily dose of darifenacin should not exceed 7.5 mg PO when administered with ceritinib due to increased darifenacin exposure. Darifenacin is a CYP3A4 substrate; ceritinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Chloramphenicol: (Moderate) The daily dose of darifenacin should not exceed 7.5 mg PO when administered with chloramphenicol due to increased darifenacin exposure. Darifenacin is a CYP3A4 substrate; chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) The exposure to tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) may be increased when coadministered with darifenacin. Appropriate monitoring and dose adjustment may be necessary. Darifenacin is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor; TCAs are CYP2D6 substrates.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with darifenacin may increase codeine plasma concentrations, but decrease the plasma concentration of the active metabolite, morphine, resulting in reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal. Avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough; consider alternative therapy for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage increase of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of darifenacin could decrease codeine plasma concentrations and increase morphine plasma concentrations resulting in prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If darifenacin is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider reducing the codeine dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Darifenacin is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6. In addition, the concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Darifenacin has anticholinergic actions that may produce additive effects. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Minor) Use of dextromethorphan with darifenacin may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Darifenacin is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Minor) Use of dextromethorphan with darifenacin may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Darifenacin is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) Use of dextromethorphan with darifenacin may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Darifenacin is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with darifenacin may increase hydrocodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions, including a risk for hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Avoid use of hydrocodone when it is being used for cough; consider alternative agents for cough treatment. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of hydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of darifenacin could decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to hydrocodone. If darifenacin is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP2D6. Darifenacin is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6. In addition, the concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Darifenacin has anticholinergic actions that may produce additive effects. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Cimetidine: (Moderate) The mean Cmax and AUC of darifenacin 30 mg once daily at steady state were 42 percent and 34 percent higher, respectively, in the presence of cimetidine. Monitor patients receiving these two drugs concomitantly for increased anticholinergic effects; dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Ciprofloxacin: (Moderate) Clinical monitoring for adverse effects, such as anticholinergic effects, is recommended during coadministration of darifenacin and ciprofloxacin. The plasma concentrations of darifenacin may be elevated when administered concurrently with ciprofloxacin. Ciprofloxacin is a CYP3A4 inhibitor, while darifenacin is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Cisapride: (Moderate) Because darifenacin antagonizes GI muscarinic cholinergic receptors, it decreases gastrointestinal motility. Darifenacin, therefore, may potentially antagonize the actions of drugs that enhance gastrointestinal motility, like cisapride.
Citalopram: (Moderate) Clinicians should monitor patients for increased anticholinergic effects when darifenacin, a CYP2D6 substrate, is coadministered with citalopram, a mild CYP2D6 inhibitor; the dosage of darifenacin may need to be adjusted.
Clarithromycin: (Moderate) The daily dose of darifenacin should not exceed 7.5 mg PO when administered with clarithromycin due to increased darifenacin exposure. Darifenacin is a CYP3A4 substrate; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) The exposure to tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) may be increased when coadministered with darifenacin. Appropriate monitoring and dose adjustment may be necessary. Darifenacin is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor; TCAs are CYP2D6 substrates.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Consider a clozapine dose reduction if coadministered with darifenacin and monitor for adverse reactions including anticholinergic effects. If darifenacin is discontinued, monitor for lack of clozapine effect and increase dose if necessary. A clinically relevant increase in the plasma concentration of clozapine may occur during concurrent use. Clozapine is partially metabolized by CYP2D6. Darifenacin is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor. Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with antimuscarinic properties like darifenacin are used concomitantly with other drugs with moderate to significant anticholinergic effects including clozapine.
Cobicistat: (Major) The daily dose of darifenacin should not exceed 7.5 mg PO when administered with cobicistat due to increased darifenacin exposure. Darifenacin is a CYP3A4 substrate; cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with darifenacin may increase codeine plasma concentrations, but decrease the plasma concentration of the active metabolite, morphine, resulting in reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal. Avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough; consider alternative therapy for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage increase of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of darifenacin could decrease codeine plasma concentrations and increase morphine plasma concentrations resulting in prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If darifenacin is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider reducing the codeine dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Darifenacin is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6. In addition, the concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Darifenacin has anticholinergic actions that may produce additive effects. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with darifenacin may increase codeine plasma concentrations, but decrease the plasma concentration of the active metabolite, morphine, resulting in reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal. Avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough; consider alternative therapy for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage increase of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of darifenacin could decrease codeine plasma concentrations and increase morphine plasma concentrations resulting in prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If darifenacin is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider reducing the codeine dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Darifenacin is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6. In addition, the concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Darifenacin has anticholinergic actions that may produce additive effects. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with darifenacin may increase codeine plasma concentrations, but decrease the plasma concentration of the active metabolite, morphine, resulting in reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal. Avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough; consider alternative therapy for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage increase of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of darifenacin could decrease codeine plasma concentrations and increase morphine plasma concentrations resulting in prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If darifenacin is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider reducing the codeine dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Darifenacin is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6. In addition, the concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Darifenacin has anticholinergic actions that may produce additive effects. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with darifenacin may increase codeine plasma concentrations, but decrease the plasma concentration of the active metabolite, morphine, resulting in reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal. Avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough; consider alternative therapy for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage increase of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of darifenacin could decrease codeine plasma concentrations and increase morphine plasma concentrations resulting in prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If darifenacin is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider reducing the codeine dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Darifenacin is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6. In addition, the concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Darifenacin has anticholinergic actions that may produce additive effects. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with darifenacin may increase codeine plasma concentrations, but decrease the plasma concentration of the active metabolite, morphine, resulting in reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal. Avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough; consider alternative therapy for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage increase of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of darifenacin could decrease codeine plasma concentrations and increase morphine plasma concentrations resulting in prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If darifenacin is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider reducing the codeine dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Darifenacin is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6. In addition, the concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Darifenacin has anticholinergic actions that may produce additive effects. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with darifenacin may increase codeine plasma concentrations, but decrease the plasma concentration of the active metabolite, morphine, resulting in reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal. Avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough; consider alternative therapy for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage increase of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of darifenacin could decrease codeine plasma concentrations and increase morphine plasma concentrations resulting in prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If darifenacin is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider reducing the codeine dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Darifenacin is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6. In addition, the concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Darifenacin has anticholinergic actions that may produce additive effects. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Conivaptan: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of darifenacin if coadministered with conivaptan. Coadministration may increase the exposure of darifenacin. Darifenacin is a sensitive CYP3A substrate; conivaptan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Darunavir: (Moderate) The daily dose of darifenacin should not exceed 7.5 mg PO when administered with darunavir due to increased darifenacin exposure. Darifenacin is a CYP3A4 substrate; darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) The daily dose of darifenacin should not exceed 7.5 mg PO when administered with cobicistat due to increased darifenacin exposure. Darifenacin is a CYP3A4 substrate; cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. (Moderate) The daily dose of darifenacin should not exceed 7.5 mg PO when administered with darunavir due to increased darifenacin exposure. Darifenacin is a CYP3A4 substrate; darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) The daily dose of darifenacin should not exceed 7.5 mg PO when administered with cobicistat due to increased darifenacin exposure. Darifenacin is a CYP3A4 substrate; cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. (Moderate) The daily dose of darifenacin should not exceed 7.5 mg PO when administered with darunavir due to increased darifenacin exposure. Darifenacin is a CYP3A4 substrate; darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Desipramine: (Moderate) The exposure to tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) may be increased when coadministered with darifenacin. Appropriate monitoring and dose adjustment may be necessary. Darifenacin is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor; TCAs are CYP2D6 substrates.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Minor) Use of dextromethorphan with darifenacin may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Darifenacin is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) Use of dextromethorphan with darifenacin may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Darifenacin is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Dextromethorphan: (Minor) Use of dextromethorphan with darifenacin may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Darifenacin is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Dextromethorphan; buPROPion: (Moderate) Bupropion, an inhibitor of CYP2D6 may inhibit the metabolism of darifenacin. In addition, bupropion is associated with moderate anticholinergic effects which could be additive when coadministered with darifenacin. Patients should be monitored for increased anticholinergic effects or other adverse effects when these two drugs are coadministered. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Minor) Use of dextromethorphan with darifenacin may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Darifenacin is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Minor) Use of dextromethorphan with darifenacin may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Darifenacin is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin: (Minor) Use of dextromethorphan with darifenacin may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Darifenacin is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Minor) Use of dextromethorphan with darifenacin may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Darifenacin is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) Use of dextromethorphan with darifenacin may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Darifenacin is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Moderate) Clinicians should monitor patients for increased anticholinergic effects when CYP2D6 inhibitors, such as quinidine, are coadministered with darifenacin; the dosage of darifenacin should be adjusted, if necessary. (Minor) Use of dextromethorphan with darifenacin may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Darifenacin is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Digoxin: (Moderate) Oral formulations of digoxin can produce higher serum concentrations when administered concurrently with antimuscarinics because of decreased GI motility induced by the antimuscarinic agent. Darifenacin coadministered with digoxin resulted in a 16 percent increase in digoxin exposure. Routine therapeutic monitoring should be continued when an antimuscarinic agent is prescribed with digoxin until the effects of combined use are known.
dilTIAZem: (Moderate) Darifenacin is a substrate for CYP3A4 and, theoretically, plasma concentrations could be increased via CYP3A4 inhibition by diltiazem, a moderate inhibitor.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Moderate) Antidiarrheals (e.g., atropine; diphenoxylate, atropine; difenoxin, or loperamide) decrease GI motility. Agents that inhibit intestinal motility or prolong intestinal transit time have been rarely reported to induce toxic megacolon. Constipation and dry mouth are reported side effects of darifenacin. Additive GI, CNS, or other anticholinergic effects may occur if used concomitantly.
Doxepin: (Moderate) The exposure to tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) may be increased when coadministered with darifenacin. Appropriate monitoring and dose adjustment may be necessary. Darifenacin is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor; TCAs are CYP2D6 substrates.
DOXOrubicin Liposomal: (Major) Avoid coadministration of darifenacin with doxorubicin due to increased systemic exposure of doxorubicin resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions. Darifenacin is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor and doxorubicin is a major substrate of CYP2D6. Concurrent use of CYP2D6 inhibitors with doxorubicin has resulted in clinically significant interactions.
DOXOrubicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of darifenacin with doxorubicin due to increased systemic exposure of doxorubicin resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions. Darifenacin is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor and doxorubicin is a major substrate of CYP2D6. Concurrent use of CYP2D6 inhibitors with doxorubicin has resulted in clinically significant interactions.
Dronedarone: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A and is an inhibitor of CYP2D6 and CYP3A. Darifenacin is a substrate for CYP2D6 and CYP3A4. The concomitant administration of dronedarone with CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Duloxetine, a CYP2D6 inhibitor, may decrease the metabolism of darifenacin, a CYP2D6 substrate. Clinicians should monitor patients for increased anticholinergic effects when CYP2D6 inhibitors are coadministered with darifenacin; dosage adjustments of darifenacin may be necessary.
Dutasteride; Tamsulosin: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of darifenacin with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 substrate and darifenacin is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor. The effects of concomitant administration of a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor on the pharmacokinetics of tamsulosin have not been evaluated, but tamsulosin exposure may increase based on the effects of strong CYP2D6 inhibition.
Duvelisib: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of darifenacin if coadministered with duvelisib. Coadministration may increase the exposure of darifenacin. Darifenacin is a sensitive CYP3A substrate; duvelisib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Elbasvir; Grazoprevir: (Moderate) Administering darifenacin with elbasvir; grazoprevir may result in elevated darifenacin plasma concentrations. Darifenacin is a substrate of CYP3A; grazoprevir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. If these drugs are used together, closely monitor for signs of adverse events.
Eliglustat: (Major) In poor CYP2D6 metabolizers (PMs), coadministration of darifenacin and eliglustat is not recommended. In extensive or intermediate CYP2D6 metabolizers (EMs or IMs), coadministration of these agents requires dosage reduction of eliglustat to 84 mg PO once daily. The coadministration of eliglustat with both darifenacin and a moderate or strong CYP3A inhibitor is contraindicated in all patients. Darifenacin is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor; eliglustat is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate. Coadministration of eliglustat with CYP2D6 inhibitors, such as darifenacin, may increase eliglustat exposure and the risk of serious adverse events (e.g., QT prolongation and cardiac arrhythmias).
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) The daily dose of darifenacin should not exceed 7.5 mg PO when administered with cobicistat due to increased darifenacin exposure. Darifenacin is a CYP3A4 substrate; cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) The daily dose of darifenacin should not exceed 7.5 mg PO when administered with cobicistat due to increased darifenacin exposure. Darifenacin is a CYP3A4 substrate; cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Ensitrelvir: (Moderate) The daily dose of darifenacin should not exceed 7.5 mg PO when administered with ensitrelvir due to increased darifenacin exposure. Darifenacin is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Ergotamine; Caffeine: (Minor) Consuming > 400 mg/day caffeine has been associated with the development of urinary incontinence. Caffeine may aggravate bladder symptoms, increase urination, and counteract the effectiveness of darifenacin to some degree. Patients may wish to limit their intake of caffeinated drugs, dietary supplements (e.g., guarana), or beverages (e.g., green tea, other teas, coffee, colas).
Escitalopram: (Moderate) Escitalopram, a modest CYP2D6 inhibitor, may decrease the metabolism of darifenacin, a CYP2D6 substrate. Clinicians should monitor patients for increased anticholinergic effects; dosage adjustments of darifenacin may be necessary.
Ethacrynic Acid: (Minor) Diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Fedratinib: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of darifenacin if coadministered with fedratinib. Coadministration may increase the exposure of darifenacin. Darifenacin is a sensitive CYP3A substrate; fedratinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when darifenacin, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Fesoterodine: (Major) Coadministration of fesoterodine and other antimuscarinics may increase the frequency and/or severity of anticholinergic effects such as blurred vision, constipation, xerostomia, and urinary retention. Additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen on GI smooth muscle, bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation.
Flecainide: (Moderate) Caution should be exercised when darifenacin is used in combination with medications that are predominantly metabolized by CYP2D6 with narrow therapeutic windows, such as flecainide, as the serum concentrations of such drugs could be greatly increased in the presence of darifenacin.
Fluconazole: (Moderate) Fluconazole, an inhibitor of CYP3A4, may decrease the metabolism of darifenacin and increase serum concentrations. Patients should be monitored for increased anticholinergic effects if these drugs are used concomitantly; dosage adjustments of darifenacin may be necessary.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Fluoxetine inhibits CYP2D6 and CYP3A4. Serum concentrations of darifenacin, a CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 substrate, may increase when used in combination with fluoxetine. Patients should be monitored for increased anticholinergic effects if these drugs are coadministered.
Fosamprenavir: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of darifenacin if coadministered with fosamprenavir. Coadministration may increase the exposure of darifenacin. Darifenacin is a sensitive CYP3A substrate; fosamprenavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Furosemide: (Minor) Diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Grapefruit juice: (Major) Advise patients to avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice during darifenacin treatment due to the risk for increased darifenacin exposure and adverse reactions. Darifenacin is a CYP3A substrate and grapefruit juice is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Haloperidol: (Moderate) Haloperidol inhibits CYP2D6. Serum concentrations of darifenacin, a CYP2D6 substrate, may increase when used in combination with haloperidol. Patients should be monitored for increased anticholinergic side effects if these drugs are coadministered.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with darifenacin may increase hydrocodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions, including a risk for hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Avoid use of hydrocodone when it is being used for cough; consider alternative agents for cough treatment. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of hydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of darifenacin could decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to hydrocodone. If darifenacin is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP2D6. Darifenacin is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6. In addition, the concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Darifenacin has anticholinergic actions that may produce additive effects. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with darifenacin may increase hydrocodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions, including a risk for hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Avoid use of hydrocodone when it is being used for cough; consider alternative agents for cough treatment. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of hydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of darifenacin could decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to hydrocodone. If darifenacin is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP2D6. Darifenacin is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6. In addition, the concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Darifenacin has anticholinergic actions that may produce additive effects. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with darifenacin may increase hydrocodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions, including a risk for hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Avoid use of hydrocodone when it is being used for cough; consider alternative agents for cough treatment. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of hydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of darifenacin could decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to hydrocodone. If darifenacin is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP2D6. Darifenacin is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6. In addition, the concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Darifenacin has anticholinergic actions that may produce additive effects. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
HYDROmorphone: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when darifenacin, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Idelalisib: (Moderate) The daily dose of darifenacin should not exceed 7.5 mg PO when administered with idelalisib due to increased darifenacin exposure. Darifenacin is a CYP3A4 substrate; idelalisib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Imatinib: (Moderate) Clinicians should monitor patients for increased anticholinergic effects when CYP2D6 inhibitors, such as imatinib, are coadministered with darifenacin; the dosage of darifenacin should be adjusted, if necessary.
Imipramine: (Moderate) The exposure to tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) may be increased when coadministered with darifenacin. Appropriate monitoring and dose adjustment may be necessary. Darifenacin is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor; TCAs are CYP2D6 substrates.
Isavuconazonium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of isavuconazonium with darifenacin may result in increased serum concentrations of darifenacin. Darifenacin is a substrate of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; isavuconazole, the active moiety of isavuconazonium, is a moderate inhibitor of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together.
Itraconazole: (Major) Avoid use of darifenacin during and for 2 weeks after discontinuation of itraconazole treatment due to the potential for increased darifenacin exposure. If concurrent use cannot be avoided, do not exceed 7.5 mg/day PO darifenacin. Darifenacin is a CYP3A4 substrate; itraconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Additionally, antimuscarinic drugs can raise intragastric pH, which can decrease the oral bioavailability of itraconazole.
Ketoconazole: (Moderate) Do not exceed a dose of 7.5 mg/day of darifenacin when administered with ketoconazole due to increased darifenacin exposure. Darifenacin is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Moderate) The daily dose of darifenacin should not exceed 7.5 mg PO when administered with clarithromycin due to increased darifenacin exposure. Darifenacin is a CYP3A4 substrate; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Lefamulin: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of darifenacin if coadministered with oral lefamulin. Coadministration may increase the exposure of darifenacin. Darifenacin is a sensitive CYP3A substrate; oral lefamulin is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; an interaction is not expected with intravenous lefamulin.
Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of darifenacin if coadministered with lenacapavir. Coadministration may increase the exposure of darifenacin. Darifenacin is a sensitive CYP3A substrate; lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Letermovir: (Moderate) An increase in the plasma concentration of darifenacin is expected when given with letermovir. Do not exceed a maximum daily darifenacin dose of 7.5 mg in patients who are also receiving treatment with cyclosporine, because the magnitude of this interaction may be amplified. No dosing adjustments are required when darifenacin and letermovir are given together without cyclosporine. Darifenacin is a CYP3A4 substrate. Letermovir is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; however, when given with cyclosporine, the combined effect CYP3A4 substrates may be similar to a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. The mean Cmax and AUC of darifenacin were increased by 128% and 95%, respectively, when in the presence of another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Levoketoconazole: (Moderate) Do not exceed a dose of 7.5 mg/day of darifenacin when administered with ketoconazole due to increased darifenacin exposure. Darifenacin is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Lonafarnib: (Moderate) The daily dose of darifenacin should not exceed 7.5 mg PO when administered with lonafarnib due to increased darifenacin exposure. Darifenacin is a CYP3A4 substrate; lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Loop diuretics: (Minor) Diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) The daily dose of darifenacin should not exceed 7.5 mg PO when administered with ritonavir due to increased darifenacin exposure. Darifenacin is a CYP3A4 substrate; ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when darifenacin, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Methadone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of methadone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of darifenacin is necessary. If darifenacin is discontinued, consider increasing the methadone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Methadone is a CYP2D6 substrate, and coadministration with CYP2D6 inhibitors like darifenacin can increase methadone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of methadone. If darifenacin is discontinued, methadone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to methadone. In addition, the concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Darifenacin has anticholinergic actions that may produce additive effects. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Mexiletine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of mexiletine if coadministered with darifenacin. Coadministration may increase serum concentrations of mexiletine. Mexiletine is a CYP2D6 substrate and darifenacin is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Midazolam: (Moderate) Darifenacin 30 mg daily coadministered with a single, oral dose of midazolam 7.5 mg resulted in a 17 percent increase is midazolam exposure.
miFEPRIStone: (Moderate) The daily dose of darifenacin should not exceed 7.5 mg/day PO in adults receiving mifepristone chronically for the treatment of hormonal conditions. The exposure of darifenacin, a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate, is expected to increase significantly with the administration of mifepristone when mifepristone is used chronically for hormonal conditions, such as Cushing's syndrome. Mifepristone is a CYP3A4 inhibitor. Due to the slow elimination of mifepristone from the body, any drug interactions that occur may be prolonged.
Mirabegron: (Moderate) Mirabegron should be administered with caution in patients taking antimuscarinic medications for the treatment of overactive bladder, such as darifenacin, because of the risk of urinary retention. In addition, mirabegron is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor. Exposure of drugs metabolized by CYP2D6 isoenzymes such as darifenacin may be increased when administered with mirabegron. Therefore, appropriate monitoring and dose adjustment may be necessary. Monitor for symptoms of urinary difficulties or urinary retention. Patients may note constipation or dry mouth with use of these drugs together.
Morphine: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when darifenacin, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Nebivolol: (Moderate) Monitor patients closely and adjust the nebivolol dose according to blood pressure response if coadministered with darifenacin. Nebivolol plasma concentrations may be increased during concurrent use. Darifenacin is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor; nebivolol is a sensitive CYP2D6 substrate.
Nefazodone: (Moderate) The daily dose of darifenacin should not exceed 7.5 mg PO when administered with nefazodone due to increased darifenacin exposure. Darifenacin is a CYP3A4 substrate; nefazodone is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Nelfinavir: (Moderate) The daily dose of darifenacin should not exceed 7.5 mg PO when administered with nelfinavir due to increased darifenacin exposure. Darifenacin is a CYP3A4 substrate; nelfinavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) The daily dose of darifenacin should not exceed 7.5 mg PO when administered with ritonavir due to increased darifenacin exposure. Darifenacin is a CYP3A4 substrate; ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Nirogacestat: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of darifenacin if coadministered with nirogacestat. Coadministration may increase the exposure of darifenacin. Darifenacin is a sensitive CYP3A substrate; nirogacestat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Nortriptyline: (Moderate) The exposure to tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) may be increased when coadministered with darifenacin. Appropriate monitoring and dose adjustment may be necessary. Darifenacin is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor; TCAs are CYP2D6 substrates.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Olanzapine exhibits anticholinergic effects that may be enhanced when combined with other drugs with anticholinergic activity like darifenacin. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Fluoxetine inhibits CYP2D6 and CYP3A4. Serum concentrations of darifenacin, a CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 substrate, may increase when used in combination with fluoxetine. Patients should be monitored for increased anticholinergic effects if these drugs are coadministered. (Moderate) Olanzapine exhibits anticholinergic effects that may be enhanced when combined with other drugs with anticholinergic activity like darifenacin. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Olanzapine exhibits anticholinergic effects that may be enhanced when combined with other drugs with anticholinergic activity like darifenacin. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Oliceridine: (Moderate) Monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals and base subsequent doses on the patient's severity of pain and response to treatment if concomitant administration of oliceridine and darifenacin is necessary; less frequent dosing of oliceridine may be required. Concomitant use of oliceridine and darifenacin may increase the plasma concentration of oliceridine, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects. If darifenacin is discontinued, consider increasing the oliceridine dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oliceridine is a CYP2D6 substrate and darifenacin is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with antimuscarinic properties like darifenacin are used concomitantly with orphenadrine.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when darifenacin, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
oxyMORphone: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when darifenacin, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
PARoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in paroxetine-related adverse reactions, including serotonin syndrome, if concomitant use with darifenacin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase paroxetine exposure. Paroxetine is a CYP2D6 substrate and darifenacin is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor.
PAZOPanib: (Moderate) Pazopanib is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration of pazopanib and darifenacin, a CYP3A4 substrate, may cause an increase in systemic concentrations of darifenacin. Use caution when administering these drugs concomitantly.
Peginterferon Alfa-2b: (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of darifenacin may be elevated when administered concurrently with peginterferon alfa-2b. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects, such as anticholinergic effects, is recommended during coadministration. Peginterferon alfa-2b is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, while darifenacin is a CYP2D6substrate.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) The exposure to tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) may be increased when coadministered with darifenacin. Appropriate monitoring and dose adjustment may be necessary. Darifenacin is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor; TCAs are CYP2D6 substrates.
Pimozide: (Moderate) Caution is advisable during concurrent use of pimozide and moderate CYP2D6 inhibitors such as darifenacin. Pimozide is metabolized primarily through CYP3A4, and to a lesser extent CYP1A2 and CYP2D6. While the manufacturer has provided no guidance regarding pimozide use with mild or moderate CYP2D6 inhibitors, concurrent use of the drug with more potent inhibitors of CYP2D6 is contraindicated. Elevated concentrations of pimozide can lead to QT prolongation, ventricular arrhythmias, and sudden death.
Posaconazole: (Moderate) The daily dose of darifenacin should not exceed 7.5 mg PO when administered with posaconazole due to increased darifenacin exposure. Darifenacin is a CYP3A4 substrate; posaconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Potassium-sparing diuretics: (Minor) Diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Minor) Use of dextromethorphan with darifenacin may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Darifenacin is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Propafenone: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of propafenone if coadministered with darifenacin. Coadministration may increase serum concentrations of propafenone. Increased exposure to propafenone may lead to cardiac arrhythmias and exaggerated beta-adrenergic blocking activity. Propafenone is a CYP2D6 substrate; darifenacin is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor. Because of its metabolism, the combination of CYP3A4 inhibition and either CYP2D6 deficiency or CYP2D6 inhibition in users of propafenone is potentially hazardous. Therefore, avoid simultaneous use of propafenone with both a CYP2D6 inhibitor and a CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of propranolol if coadministered with darifenacin. Coadministration may increase serum concentrations of propranolol. Propranolol is a CYP2D6 substrate; darifenacin is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Protriptyline: (Moderate) The exposure to tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) may be increased when coadministered with darifenacin. Appropriate monitoring and dose adjustment may be necessary. Darifenacin is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor; TCAs are CYP2D6 substrates.
QUEtiapine: (Moderate) When coadministering quetiapine and darifenacin, monitor for additive anticholinergic effects such as constipation, blurred vision, urinary retention, xerostomia, and tachycardia. Constipation is a commonly reported adverse effect of quetiapine and anticholinergic agents such as darifenacin. Constipation may lead to ileus. Intestinal obstruction has been reported with quetiapine, including fatal cases in patients who were receiving multiple concomitant medications that decrease intestinal motility. Anticholinergic effects observed during therapeutic use of quetiapine are thought to be associated with norquetiapine, the active metabolite of quetiapine which has demonstrated a moderate to strong in vitro binding affinity for several muscarinic receptor subtypes.
quiNIDine: (Moderate) Clinicians should monitor patients for increased anticholinergic effects when CYP2D6 inhibitors, such as quinidine, are coadministered with darifenacin; the dosage of darifenacin should be adjusted, if necessary.
Relacorilant: (Moderate) The daily dose of darifenacin should not exceed 7.5 mg PO when administered with relacorilant due to increased darifenacin exposure. Darifenacin is a CYP3A substrate; relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Remifentanil: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when darifenacin, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Ribociclib: (Major) The daily dose of darifenacin should not exceed 7.5 mg PO when administered with ribociclib due to increased darifenacin exposure. Darifenacin is a CYP3A4 substrate; ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) The daily dose of darifenacin should not exceed 7.5 mg PO when administered with ribociclib due to increased darifenacin exposure. Darifenacin is a CYP3A4 substrate; ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Rilzabrutinib: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of darifenacin if coadministered with rilzabrutinib. Coadministration may increase the exposure of darifenacin. Darifenacin is a CYP3A substrate; rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Ritlecitinib: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of darifenacin if coadministered with ritlecitinib. Coadministration may increase the exposure of darifenacin. Darifenacin is a sensitive CYP3A substrate; ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Ritonavir: (Moderate) The daily dose of darifenacin should not exceed 7.5 mg PO when administered with ritonavir due to increased darifenacin exposure. Darifenacin is a CYP3A4 substrate; ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Rolapitant: (Major) Use caution if darifenacin and rolapitant are used concurrently, and monitor for darifenacin-related adverse effects. Darifenacin is a CYP2D6 substrate and rolapitant is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor; the inhibitory effect of rolapitant is expected to persist beyond 28 days for an unknown duration. Exposure to another CYP2D6 substrate, following a single dose of rolapitant increased about 3-fold on Days 8 and Day 22. The inhibition of CYP2D6 persisted on Day 28 with a 2.3-fold increase in the CYP2D6 substrate concentrations, the last time point measured.
Saquinavir: (Moderate) The daily dose of darifenacin should not exceed 7.5 mg PO when administered with saquinavir due to increased darifenacin exposure. Darifenacin is a CYP3A4 substrate; saquinavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Sertraline: (Moderate) Sertraline, an inhibitor of CYP3A4, may decrease the metabolism of darifenacin and increase serum concentrations. Patients should be monitored for increased anticholinergic effects if these drugs are used concomitantly; dosage adjustments of darifenacin may be necessary.
Spironolactone: (Minor) Diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Stiripentol: (Moderate) Consider a dose adjustment of darifenacin when coadministered with stiripentol. Coadministration may alter plasma concentrations of darifenacin resulting in an increased risk of adverse reactions and/or decreased efficacy. Darifenacin is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate. In vitro data predicts inhibition or induction of CYP3A4 by stiripentol potentially resulting in clinically significant interactions.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when darifenacin, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Tamsulosin: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of darifenacin with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 substrate and darifenacin is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor. The effects of concomitant administration of a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor on the pharmacokinetics of tamsulosin have not been evaluated, but tamsulosin exposure may increase based on the effects of strong CYP2D6 inhibition.
Tapentadol: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when darifenacin, an anticholinergic drug for overactive bladder, is used with opiate agonists. The concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Thioridazine: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of thioridazine and darifenacin is contraindicated due to the potential for increased thioridazine exposure. Increased plasma concentrations of thioridazine are expected to increase the prolongation of the QTc interval associated with thioridazine and may increase the risk of serious, potentially fatal, cardiac arrhythmias, such as torsade de pointes type arrhythmias. Thioridazine is a CYP2D6 substrate; darifenacin is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Tipranavir: (Moderate) The daily dose of darifenacin should not exceed 7.5 mg PO when administered with tipranavir due to increased darifenacin exposure. Darifenacin is a CYP3A4 substrate; tipranavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Torsemide: (Minor) Diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
traMADol: (Moderate) Coadministration of darifenacin with tramadol may decrease tramadol metabolism resulting in decreased tramadol efficacy and/or increased tramadol-induced risks for respiratory depression, serotonin syndrome, or seizures. Tramadol is a CYP2D6 substrate; darifenacin is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor. The analgesic activity of tramadol is due to the activity of both the parent drug and the O-desmethyltramadol metabolite (M1), and M1 formation is dependent on CYP2D6. Therefore, use of tramadol with a CYP2D6-inhibitor may alter tramadol efficacy. In addition, inhibition of CYP2D6 metabolism is expected to result in reduced metabolic clearance of tramadol that may increase the risk of tramadol-related adverse events including respiratory depression, serotonin syndrome, and seizures. In addition, the concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates such as tramadol increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Coadministration of darifenacin with tramadol may decrease tramadol metabolism resulting in decreased tramadol efficacy and/or increased tramadol-induced risks for respiratory depression, serotonin syndrome, or seizures. Tramadol is a CYP2D6 substrate; darifenacin is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor. The analgesic activity of tramadol is due to the activity of both the parent drug and the O-desmethyltramadol metabolite (M1), and M1 formation is dependent on CYP2D6. Therefore, use of tramadol with a CYP2D6-inhibitor may alter tramadol efficacy. In addition, inhibition of CYP2D6 metabolism is expected to result in reduced metabolic clearance of tramadol that may increase the risk of tramadol-related adverse events including respiratory depression, serotonin syndrome, and seizures. In addition, the concomitant use of these drugs together may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Opiates such as tramadol increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Both agents may also cause drowsiness or blurred vision, and patients should use care in driving or performing other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drugs are known.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Verapamil is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 isoenzymes. Co-administration with verapamil may lead to an increase in serum levels of drugs that are CYP3A4 substrates, including darifenacin.
Triamterene: (Minor) Diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Moderate) The exposure to tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) may be increased when coadministered with darifenacin. Appropriate monitoring and dose adjustment may be necessary. Darifenacin is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor; TCAs are CYP2D6 substrates.
Trimipramine: (Moderate) The exposure to tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) may be increased when coadministered with darifenacin. Appropriate monitoring and dose adjustment may be necessary. Darifenacin is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor; TCAs are CYP2D6 substrates.
Tucatinib: (Moderate) The daily dose of darifenacin should not exceed 7.5 mg PO when administered with tucatinib due to increased darifenacin exposure. Darifenacin is a CYP3A4 substrate; tucatinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Vemurafenib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of vemurafenib and darifenacin may result in altered concentrations of darifenacin. Vemurafenib is a weak inhibitor of CYP2D6 and an inducer of CYP3A4. Darifenacin is a substrate of CYP2D6 and CYP3A4. Use caution and monitor patients for toxicity and efficacy.
Verapamil: (Moderate) Verapamil is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 isoenzymes. Co-administration with verapamil may lead to an increase in serum levels of drugs that are CYP3A4 substrates, including darifenacin.
Vibegron: (Moderate) Vibegron should be administered with caution in patients taking antimuscarinic medications for the treatment of overactive bladder, such as darifenacin, because of the risk of urinary retention. Monitor for symptoms of urinary difficulties or urinary retention. Patients may note constipation or dry mouth with use of these drugs together.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Moderate) The daily dose of darifenacin should not exceed 7.5 mg PO when administered with clarithromycin due to increased darifenacin exposure. Darifenacin is a CYP3A4 substrate; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Voriconazole: (Major) The daily dose of darifenacin should not exceed 7.5 mg PO when administered with voriconazole due to increased darifenacin exposure. Darifenacin is a CYP3A4 substrate; voriconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Voxelotor: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of darifenacin if coadministered with voxelotor. Coadministration may increase the exposure of darifenacin. Darifenacin is a sensitive CYP3A substrate; voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Zafirlukast: (Moderate) Zafirlukast inhibits CYP3A4 and may increase the serum concentration of darifenacin, a CYP3A4 substrate.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  During three phase III fixed-dose trials of darifenacin, adverse events were reported in 54% of patients receiving darifenacin 7.5 mg daily, in 66% of patients receiving darifenacin 15 mg daily, and in 49% of patients receiving placebo. In all placebo-controlled trails combined, the incidence of serious adverse events for 7.5 mg of darifenacin, 15 mg of darifenacin, and placebo was similar. The two most commonly reported adverse events in clinical trials of darifenacin (15 or 30 mg daily) were xerostomia (18.7—35.3% of patients receiving darifenacin vs. 8—9% of patients receiving placebo) and constipation (14.8—21.3% of patients receiving darifenacin vs. 6—8% of patients receiving placebo). The rates of discontinuation due to these 2 adverse events was low (= 1% of patients regardless of causality were abnormal vision, back pain, dry skin, hypertension, peripheral edema, weight gain, arthralgia, bronchitis, pharyngitis, rhinitis, sinusitis, rash, pruritus, and vaginitis.
 
During post-marketing experience, hypersensitivity reactions including angioedema, confusion and hallucinations, and cardiac palpitations have been reported in association with darifenacin use. Neither the frequency nor darifenacin's role in the cause of these adverse effects have been reliably determined.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    To determine the effects of darifenacin therapy on the QT interval and heart rate, 179 healthy adults aged 18—65 (18% poor metabolizers and 82% extensive metabolizers) were treated with either 15 mg or 75 mg of darifenacin daily, moxifloxacin 400 mg daily, or placebo for 6 days. At the doses studied, darifenacin did NOT cause a prolongation in the QT interval while moxifloxacin treatment caused a mean increase from baseline of about 7 msec. Changes in heart rate were also small; 3.1 bpm for the patients treated with darifenacin 15 mg daily and 1.3 bpm for patients treated with 75 mg of darifenacin daily. During Phase II and III clinical trials, the median change in heart rate after exposure to darifenacin was no different than placebo.
    Headline
    abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, nausea, vomiting, xerostomia
    General Information
    During three phase III fixed-dose trials of darifenacin, adverse events were reported in 54% of patients receiving darifenacin 7.5 mg daily, in 66% of patients receiving darifenacin 15 mg daily, and in 49% of patients receiving placebo. In all placebo-controlled trails combined, the incidence of serious adverse events for 7.5 mg of darifenacin, 15 mg of darifenacin, and placebo was similar. The two most commonly reported adverse events in clinical trials of darifenacin (15 or 30 mg daily) were xerostomia (18.7—35.3% of patients receiving darifenacin vs. 8—9% of patients receiving placebo) and constipation (14.8—21.3% of patients receiving darifenacin vs. 6—8% of patients receiving placebo). The rates of discontinuation due to these 2 adverse events was low (< 1% for xerostomia and 0.6—1.2% for constipation) indicating a mild severity of such reactions. In addition, similar to other newer anticholinergics used in the treatment of overactive bladder, the incidence of xerostomia is lower with darifenacin when compared to oxybutynin; in crossover studies of darifenacin 15 mg or 30 mg daily compared with oxybutynin 5 mg three times daily, the incidence of xerostomia was 13% for darifenacin and 36% for oxybutynin (p < 0.05). Other gastrointestinal-related adverse events reported in patients treated with darifenacin with a frequency greater than placebo include dyspepsia (2.7—8.4% vs. 2.6% in darifenacin and placebo patients, respectively), abdominal pain (2.4—3.9% vs. 0.5% in darifenacin and placebo patients, respectively), nausea/vomiting (1.5—4.1% vs.1.5% in darifenacin and placebo patients, respectively), and diarrhea (0.9—2.1% vs 1.8% in darifenacin and placebo patients, respectively).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspepsia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    urinary retention
    General Information
    Urinary tract infection was reported in 3.7—4.7% of darifenacin-treated patients compared to 2.6—3.1% of placebo-treated patients during clinical trials. In addition, acute urinary retention was reported in a total of 16 patients treated with darifenacin during phase I—III clinical trials; seven of these cases were reported as severe events. It should be noted that four of these patients were taking a higher than recommended dosage of darifenacin (30 mg daily) for overactive bladder; the remaining severe cases were reported in a patient with irritable bowel syndrome, a patient with benign prostatic hypertrophy, and a patient with detrusor hyperactivity secondary to a stroke.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      urinary retention
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    xerophthalmia
    General Information
    During Phase III clinical trials, xerophthalmia was reported at an incidence of 1.5—2.1%. While the incidence was low, xerophthalmia was reported more commonly in darifenacin-treated patients than placebo (0.5%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      xerophthalmia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    asthenia, dizziness, drowsiness, headache
    General Information
    Central nervous system (CNS) related side effects were uncommon during clinical trials of darifenacin; the most commonly reported CNS side effects were drowsiness and dizziness (<= 2% of patients). In the largest phase III study, no patients reported blurred vision, a common CNS side effect seen with antimuscarinics. Furthermore, darifenacin had no adverse effect on cognitive function in elderly patients (aged 65—84 years). Asthenia and headache were reported more commonly in darifenacin-treated patients during clinical trials. The incidence of asthenia was 1.5—2.7% in darifenacin-treated patients vs. 1.3% of placebo-treated patients; headache was reported in 6.7% of darifenacin-treated patients compared to 5.5% placebo-treated patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    confusion, hallucinations, palpitations
    General Information
    During post-marketing experience, confusion, hallucinations, and cardiac palpitations were reported in association with darifenacin use. Neither the frequency nor darifenacin's role in the cause of these adverse effects have been reliably determined.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      confusion
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hallucinations
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      palpitations
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    arthralgia, back pain, hypertension, peripheral edema, pharyngitis, pruritus, rash (unspecified), rhinitis, vaginitis, weight gain
    General Information
    Flu-like symptoms (3%) and accidental injury (3%) were reported in patients receiving darifenacin during a 12-week, phase III study at a frequency greater than placebo (2.4% for both effects). Other adverse events reported during phase III, placebo-controlled trials in >= 1% of patients regardless of causality were abnormal vision, back pain, dry skin, hypertension, peripheral edema, weight gain, arthralgia, bronchitis, pharyngitis, rhinitis, sinusitis, rash (unspecified), pruritus, and vaginitis.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      back pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      pharyngitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      rhinitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      vaginitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      weight gain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
    Headline
    anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, erythema multiforme
    General Information
    Angioedema has been reported with darifenacin use, with some cases occurring shortly after the initiation of therapy. Reported cases have included angioedema of the face, lips, tongue, and or larynx. In addition, during post-marketing experience, hypersensitivity reactions including angioedema with airway obstruction and anaphylactoid reactions were reported. Prior to treatment initiation, clinicians should caution patients of the risk of angioedema associated with darifenacin therapy. Patients should also be advised to promptly discontinue therapy and seek immediate medical attention if they experience edema of the tongue or laryngopharynx, or difficulty breathing. Serious dermatological reactions including erythema multiforme and interstitial granuloma annulare have also been rarely reported during post-marketing surveillance.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      erythema multiforme
      Severity
      Severe

Description
  Text
  Darifenacin is an oral competitive, selective M3 muscarinic receptor antagonist administered once daily to treat overactive bladder (OAB) and its symptoms in adults. Treatment with darifenacin for OAB results in significant reductions in the frequency of urinary incontinence, reductions in the number of micturitions per day, and improvements in the frequency and severity of symptoms including urgency. In addition, darifenacin has been shown to be as effective as oxybutynin in reducing the incidence of incontinent episodes and symptoms of urgency. When compared with oxybutynin, the incidence of dry mouth was found to be significantly lower with darifenacin (13% for darifenacin vs. 36% for oxybutynin, p less than 0.05). Per guidelines for idiopathic OAB, either bladder-specific antimuscarinics or beta-3 receptor agonists may be used initially as monotherapy or in combination with behavioral interventions depending on the patient's needs and treatment goals. When using a bladder-specific antimuscarinic, use of extended-release oral formulations (e.g., darifenacin) is preferred to immediate-release products as these formulations may limit side effects such as dry mouth; transdermal therapy (i.e., oxybutynin) may also be offered. Patients experiencing intolerance or side effects may respond well to dose reduction or selection of a different bladder-specific antimuscarinic agent. Clinicians may consider combination therapy with an antimuscarinic and beta-3 agonists for patients refractory to monotherapy with either therapy alone. Darifenacin was first FDA approved in 2004.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Darifenacin is a competitive muscarinic receptor antagonist that has a greater affinity for the M3 receptor than for other known muscarinic receptors. Darifenacin has a 9-fold greater affinity for M3 when compared to M1, a 12-fold greater affinity for M3 when compared to M5, and a 59-fold greater affinity for M3 when compared to M2 and M4 receptors. In general, muscarinic receptors play an important role in several functions, including contractions of the urinary bladder smooth muscle. Both M2 and M3 receptors are found in the human detrusor muscle; even though there are a greater number of M2 receptors located in the detrusor muscle, it appears that M3 receptors are primarily responsible for bladder function and direct contraction of the detrusor muscle. Darifenacin has been shown to increase bladder capacity and diminish the frequency of unstable detrusor contractions in patients with involuntary detrusor contractions. The M3 receptors are involved in contraction of human bladder and gastrointestinal smooth muscle, saliva production, and iris sphincter function. Adverse drug effects such as dry mouth, constipation and abnormal vision may be mediated through effects on M3 receptors in these organs.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    The mean oral bioavailability at steady-state is estimated to be 15% and 19% for 7.5 mg and 15 mg tablets, respectively. After oral administration, peak plasma concentrations of darifenacin are reached approximately 7 hours after multiple dosing and steady state plasma concentrations are achieved by the sixth day of dosing. Approximately 60% of an orally administered dose is recovered in the urine and 40% in the feces with 3% of the dose excreted in the urine as unchanged drug.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    The pharmacokinetics of darifenacin are affected by moderate hepatic impairment (Child Pugh B); protein binding is affected and after adjusting for plasma protein binding, the unbound darifenacin exposure is 4.7-fold higher in patients with moderate hepatic impairment. Subjects with severe hepatic impairment (Child Pugh C) have not been studied, but exposure is expected to be significantly increased. Mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh A) had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of darifenacin.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    While no dosage adjustment is necessary in elderly patients, clearance of darifenacin decreases with age (6% per decade relative to a median age of 44), with exposure of darifenacin 12% to 19% higher in volunteers aged 45 to 65 years compared to younger volunteers aged 18 to 44 years.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    While no dosage adjustment is necessary based on gender, darifenacin Cmax and AUC were 57% to 79% and 61% to 73% higher in females than in males, respectively.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    A subset of individuals (approximately 7% of Caucasians and 2% of African Americans) are poor metabolizers of CYP2D6 mediated drugs; darifenacin is metabolized by CYP2D6 and CYP3A4.
    Name
    Other
    Description
    CYP2D6 Poor Metabolizers
No dosage adjustment has been recommended for darifenacin in CYP2D6 poor metabolizers (PMs). A subset of individuals (approximately 7% of Caucasians and 2% of African Americans) are poor metabolizers of CYP2D6 substrates. Individuals with normal CYP2D6 activity are referred to as extensive metabolizers (EM). In CYP2D6 PMs, darifenacin metabolism will be mediated principally by CYP3A4. Exposure to darifenacin is substantially higher in PMs when compared to EMs; PM:EM ratios for Cmax and AUC following darifenacin 15 mg once daily are 1.9 and 1.7, respectively. Estimated darifenacin clearance is 40 L/hour for EMs and 32 L/hour for PMs.
  Text
  Darifenacin is administered orally. It is 98% protein-bound, primarily to alpha-1-acid-glycoprotein, with a volume of distribution of 163 L. Darifenacin is extensively metabolized by the liver after oral dosing; the three main routes of metabolism are monohydroxylation in the dihydrobenzofuran ring, dihydrobenzofuran ring opening, and N-dealkylation of the pyrrolidine nitrogen. Metabolism is mediated by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6. The elimination half-life following chronic dosing is 13 to 19 hours.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 (CYP450) isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A4, CYP2D6
CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 are the primary mediators of darifenacin metabolism. Metabolism is significantly affected by potent CYP3A4 inhibitors, and darifenacin dosing limits are recommended in patients receiving potent CYP3A4 inhibitors concomitantly. Darifenacin exposure is 33% higher in the presence of a potent CYP2D6 inhibitor, so caution is recommended in patients receiving potent CYP2D6 inhibiting drugs concomitantly. Finally, darifenacin is an inhibitor of CYP2D6, and may increase the concentrations of drugs that are predominantly metabolized by CYP2D6 and which have a narrow therapeutic window.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Extended-release tablets:
Have the patient swallow the extended-release tablets whole with water; do not chew, divide, or crush.
May take with or without food. Administer at approximately the same time daily.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    15 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    15 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Not indicated.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh A): No dosage adjustment needed.
Moderate liver impairment (Child-Pugh class B): Do not exceed 7.5 mg PO once daily.
Severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C): Use is not recommended.
  Renal Impairment
  No dosage adjustments are needed.
