=== Acetohydroxamic Acid — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 1177)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Acetohydroxamic acid is an oral agent used as an adjunct in the treatment of chronic urea-splitting urinary tract infections and has been used as last-line adjunct agent for hepatic encephalopathy.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 1.5 grams/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): anxiety, depression, headache, tremor, malaise, anemia, fatigue, hemolytic anemia, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, palpitations, phlebitis, pulmonary embolism, thrombosis

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Acetohydroxamic acid is contraindicated in individuals with severe renal impairment or renal failure (CrCl less than 20 mL/minute and/or serum creatinine more than 2.5 mg/dL). Acetohydroxamic acid dose adjustment is necessary in individuals with a serum creatinine more than 1.8 to 2.5 mg/dL. For store information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section. Oral Administration Oral Solid Formulations Administer on an empty stomach (i.e., 1 hour before or 2 hours after a meal) with plenty of fluids.

ACETOHYDROXAMIC ACID

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Lithostat

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of chronic urea-splitting urinary tract infection and residual or recurrent struvite nephrolithiasis†

Oral dosage
Adults


12 mg/kg/day PO divided every 6 to 8 hours, initially. Adjust dose based on clinical response and tolerability. Usual dose: 10 to 15 mg/kg/day or 750 to 1,000 mg/day. Max: 1,500 mg/day.


Children and Adolescents


10 mg/kg/day PO in 2 or 3 divided doses, initially. Adjust dose based on clinical response and tolerability. Max: 15 mg/kg/day or 1,500 mg/day.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

renal failure, renal impairment


Acetohydroxamic acid is contraindicated in individuals with severe renal impairment or renal failure (CrCl less than 20 mL/minute and/or serum creatinine more than 2.5 mg/dL). Acetohydroxamic acid dose adjustment is necessary in individuals with a serum creatinine more than 1.8 to 2.5 mg/dL. There are insufficient data to determine the optimum dose and/or dosing frequency in individuals with moderate renal impairment. To avoid excessive drug accumulation, monitor individuals with significant renal impairment closely.


Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

Treatment-Related Restrictions of Use

Acetohydroxamic acid is contraindicated in individuals whose disease and physical state allow for appropriate antimicrobial therapy and surgical management, whose urinary tract infections can be treated with oral antimicrobial agents targeted at culture-specific organisms, and whose urine is infected by organisms that do not produce urea.

people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk


Counsel people who may become pregnant about the reproductive risk associated with acetohydroxamic acid. Acetohydroxamic acid is contraindicated in people who may become pregnant and are not using appropriate contraception. If pregnancy occurs while an individual is taking acetohydroxamic acid, discuss the potential hazard to the fetus.


pregnancy


Acetohydroxamic acid use is contraindicated during pregnancy due to the risk of fetal harm. Acetohydroxamic acid was found to be teratogenic when given intraperitoneally to rats. Teratogenic effects included restricted growth of and/or clubbed rear legs, exencephaly, and encephalocele.


breast-feeding


Acetohydroxamic acid use is not recommended during breast-feeding due to the potential for serious adverse effects in the breastfed child. It is not known whether acetohydroxamic acid is excreted into breast milk.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Acetohydroxamic acid use is contraindicated during pregnancy due to the risk of fetal harm. Acetohydroxamic acid was found to be teratogenic when given intraperitoneally to rats. Teratogenic effects included restricted growth of and/or clubbed rear legs, exencephaly, and encephalocele.


Interactions

Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Aluminum Hydroxide: (Major) Antacids may interact with urinary acidifiers by alkalinizing the urine. Frequent use of these high dose antacids should be avoided in patients receiving urinary acidifiers.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Carbonate: (Major) Antacids may interact with urinary acidifiers by alkalinizing the urine. Frequent use of these high dose antacids should be avoided in patients receiving urinary acidifiers.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Major) Antacids may interact with urinary acidifiers by alkalinizing the urine. Frequent use of these high dose antacids should be avoided in patients receiving urinary acidifiers.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Major) Antacids may interact with urinary acidifiers by alkalinizing the urine. Frequent use of these high dose antacids should be avoided in patients receiving urinary acidifiers.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Trisilicate: (Major) Antacids may interact with urinary acidifiers by alkalinizing the urine. Frequent use of these high dose antacids should be avoided in patients receiving urinary acidifiers.
Antacids: (Major) Antacids may interact with urinary acidifiers by alkalinizing the urine. Frequent use of these high dose antacids should be avoided in patients receiving urinary acidifiers.
Aspirin, ASA: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Aspirin, ASA; Dipyridamole: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Bismuth Subsalicylate: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Choline Salicylate; Magnesium Salicylate: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) Avoid concomitant use of acetohydroxamic acid and oral iron products. Injectable iron dosage forms are preferred if iron therapy is required in patients receiving acetohydroxamic acid. The oral absorption of both medications is reduced during concomitant use which may reduce efficacy.
Ethanol: (Major) Advise patients to avoid alcohol-containing beverages while taking acetohydroxamic acid. Concomitant use of acetohydroxamic acid and alcohol can cause a flushing reaction and a nonpruritic, macular rash on the upper extremities and face. The rash typically occurs within 30 to 45 minutes of alcohol ingestion and disappears 30 to 60 minutes later.
Ferric Maltol: (Moderate) Avoid concomitant use of acetohydroxamic acid and oral iron products. Injectable iron dosage forms are preferred if iron therapy is required in patients receiving acetohydroxamic acid. The oral absorption of both medications is reduced during concomitant use which may reduce efficacy.
Food: (Major) Acetohydroxamic acid chelates heavy metals, including dietary iron. Absorption of iron and acetohydroxamic acid from the intestinal lumen may be reduced. Acetohydroxamic acid should be taken without food, on an empty stomach.
Iron Salts: (Moderate) Avoid concomitant use of acetohydroxamic acid and oral iron products. Injectable iron dosage forms are preferred if iron therapy is required in patients receiving acetohydroxamic acid. The oral absorption of both medications is reduced during concomitant use which may reduce efficacy.
Iron: (Moderate) Avoid concomitant use of acetohydroxamic acid and oral iron products. Injectable iron dosage forms are preferred if iron therapy is required in patients receiving acetohydroxamic acid. The oral absorption of both medications is reduced during concomitant use which may reduce efficacy.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) Avoid concomitant use of acetohydroxamic acid and oral iron products. Injectable iron dosage forms are preferred if iron therapy is required in patients receiving acetohydroxamic acid. The oral absorption of both medications is reduced during concomitant use which may reduce efficacy.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Moderate) Avoid concomitant use of acetohydroxamic acid and oral iron products. Injectable iron dosage forms are preferred if iron therapy is required in patients receiving acetohydroxamic acid. The oral absorption of both medications is reduced during concomitant use which may reduce efficacy.
Magnesium Hydroxide: (Major) Antacids may interact with urinary acidifiers by alkalinizing the urine. Frequent use of these high dose antacids should be avoided in patients receiving urinary acidifiers.
Magnesium Salicylate: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Magnesium Salts: (Major) Antacids may interact with urinary acidifiers by alkalinizing the urine. Frequent use of these high dose antacids should be avoided in patients receiving urinary acidifiers.
Methadone: (Minor) As methadone is a weak base, the renal elimination of methadone is increased by urine acidification. Thus acidifying agents may lower the serum methadone concentration. The limited amounts of circulating methadone that undergo glomerular filtration are partially reabsorbed by the kidney tubules, and this reabsorption is pH-dependent. Several studies have demonstrated that methadone is cleared faster from the body with an acidic urinary pH as compared with a more basic pH.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) Avoid concomitant use of acetohydroxamic acid and oral iron products. Injectable iron dosage forms are preferred if iron therapy is required in patients receiving acetohydroxamic acid. The oral absorption of both medications is reduced during concomitant use which may reduce efficacy.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) Avoid concomitant use of acetohydroxamic acid and oral iron products. Injectable iron dosage forms are preferred if iron therapy is required in patients receiving acetohydroxamic acid. The oral absorption of both medications is reduced during concomitant use which may reduce efficacy.
Polysaccharide-Iron Complex: (Moderate) Avoid concomitant use of acetohydroxamic acid and oral iron products. Injectable iron dosage forms are preferred if iron therapy is required in patients receiving acetohydroxamic acid. The oral absorption of both medications is reduced during concomitant use which may reduce efficacy.
Salsalate: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Sodium Ferric Gluconate Complex; Ferric Pyrophosphate Citrate: (Moderate) Avoid concomitant use of acetohydroxamic acid and oral iron products. Injectable iron dosage forms are preferred if iron therapy is required in patients receiving acetohydroxamic acid. The oral absorption of both medications is reduced during concomitant use which may reduce efficacy.


Adverse Reaction
General Information

Adverse reactions appear to occur more frequently in patients with preexisting phlebothrombosis, thrombophlebitis, and/or in patients with advanced renal impairment. The risk of developing an adverse reactions appears to be highest during the first year of treatment, and chronic treatment does not increase the risk or severity of adverse reactions.

anxiety, depression, headache, tremor


Headache has been reported in approximately 30% of patients during the initial 48 hours of acetohydroxamic acid treatment. The headaches are mild and have not been associated with vertigo, tinnitus, or any visual or auditory symptoms. These initial headaches respond to oral salicylate analgesics and usually resolve spontaneously. Psychiatric adverse reactions including depression, nervousness (anxiety), and tremulousness (tremor) have been reported in approximately 20% of patients during acetohydroxamic acid therapy. These reactions are typically mild and transitory, but interruption or discontinuation of therapy occurs in about 6% of patients.


anorexia, malaise, nausea, vomiting


Gastrointestinal adverse reactions including anorexia, nausea, vomiting, and associated malaise have been reported in 20—25% of patients during acetohydroxamic acid therapy. These symptoms are typically mild and transient and do not result in interruption or discontinuation of therapy.


anemia, fatigue, hemolytic anemia, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia


Blood dyscrasias have been reported in patients on acetohydroxamic acid. Acetohydroxamic acid inhibits DNA synthesis and chelates metals including iron. Clinical effects noted with acetohydroxamic acid include hemolysis, and a decrease in circulating red blood cells, hemoglobin, and hematocrit, and if significant enough, may produce anemia. Most patients develop mild reticulocytosis (5—6%) during acetohydroxamic acid therapy. Approximately 15% of patients have laboratory findings consistent with Coombs negative hemolytic anemia. Systemic symptoms associated with these findings such as malaise, lethargy, fatigue, nausea, vomiting, and anorexia occasionally occur. Approximately 3% of patients experienced symptoms severe enough to warrant interruption of treatment. These hematological abnormalities are more prevalent in patients with advanced renal failure; the drug is contraindicated in those with serum creatinine > 2.5 mg/dL. Hematologic and laboratory values return to normal with discontinuation of treatment. A CBC, including a reticulocyte count, is recommended following the initial 2 weeks of treatment with acetohydroxamic acid. If the reticulocyte count is >= 6%, a reduction in dose is recommended. A CBC and reticulocyte count are then recommended every 3 months during treatment. Leukopenia and thrombocytopenia have occurred in animals exposed to large doses of acetohydroxamic acid; although such abnormalities have not been reported in man, monitoring is recommended.


alopecia, maculopapular rash


A non-pruritic, maculopapular rash on the upper extremities and face has been reported in patients on long-term acetohydroxamic acid therapy. The skin rash, which may be accompanied by a general sensation of warmth, usually occurs during the concomitant use of alcohol (see Drug Interactions) but has occurred in the absence of alcohol. Most patients experiencing this rash have continued treatment, avoided alcohol, or reduced the acetohydroxamic acid dose; however, discontinuation of treatment was necessary in some patients. Alopecia also has been reported in some patients during acetohydroxamic acid therapy.


palpitations, phlebitis, pulmonary embolism, thrombosis


Superficial phlebitis involving the lower extremities was reported in several patients during Phase II clinical trials of acetohydroxamic acid. Some patients had phlebitic episodes prior to acetohydroxamic acid treatment. Radiographic evidence of pulmonary embolism was seen in 3 patients with phlebitis of the lower extremities. Deep vein thrombosis was reported in one patient. One patient developed phlebothrombosis but also had an associated traumatic injury to the groin; it is unclear if the phlebitis was related to the injury of acetohydroxamic acid therapy. All vascular and embolic abnormalities resolved following discontinuation of acetohydroxamic acid and appropriate medical therapy. Several patients resumed therapy with no further vascular complications. No patient in three Phase III clinical trials developed phlebitis. Palpitations also have been reported with acetohydroxamic acid therapy.


new primary malignancy


Although not reported with acetohydroxamic acid, abnormal liver function has been reported with a chloro-benzene derivative of acetohydroxamic acid in a clinical study. Additionally, acetamide, a metabolite of acetohydroxamic acid, has been shown to cause a new primary malignancy of hepatocellular cancer in rats at oral doses about 1,500 times the human dose. Acetohydroxamic acid is cytotoxic and was positive for mutagenicity in the Ames test. Consider acetohydroxamic acid a potential human carcinogen. Monitor liver function closely during acetohydroxamic acid treatment.


Description

Acetohydroxamic acid is an oral agent used as an adjunct in the treatment of chronic urea-splitting urinary tract infections and has been used as last-line adjunct agent for hepatic encephalopathy. Acetohydroxamic acid inhibits the hydrolysis of urea, decreases the production of ammonia, and decreases urinary pH in urine infected with urea-splitting organisms. Acetohydroxamic acid should not be considered an acidifying agent nor does it have any direct antimicrobial effect. Acetohydroxamic acid (Lithostat) was FDA-approved in 1983.

Mechanism Of Action

Acetohydroxamic acid inhibits the hydrolysis of urea and production of ammonia in urine infected with urea-splitting bacteria. By inhibiting the enzyme, there is a reduction of both urine alkalinity and ammonia concentration. Acetohydroxamic acid does not directly acidify the urine or have any direct antimicrobial effect. The effectiveness of antibacterial medications is enhanced and the formation of urinary calculi, including struvite stones, is reduced.

Pharmacokinetics

Acetohydroxamic acid is administered orally. Acetohydroxamic acid is distributed throughout body water. There is no known binding to tissue. A significant portion of the dose (36—65%) is excreted unchanged in the urine. The half-life is approximately 5—10 hours in patients with normal renal function. An increase in the dose of acetohydroxamic acid corresponds to an increase in half-life.
 
The drug inhibits urease, which results in inhibition of the hydrolysis of urea and production of ammonia in urine infected with urea-splitting organisms (see Mechanism of Action). The therapeutic effect of acetohydroxamic acid is due to excretion of unchanged drug in the urine. The concentration of acetohydroxamic acid in the urine that is needed to inhibit urease is unknown. Therapeutic benefit may be seen from concentrations as low as 8 mcg/mL, but higher concentrations (i.e., 30 mcg/mL) are expected to provide urease inhibition.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route

Acetohydroxamic acid is well absorbed orally. Peak plasma concentrations are reached 0.25—1 hour after oral dosing. Chelation to dietary iron in the gut which may interfere with oral absorption of acetohydroxamic acid and iron (see Drug Interactions).

Renal Impairment

The plasma half-life of acetohydroxamic acid is prolonged in renal impairment; accumulation may occur. Dosage reductions are recommended (see Dosage, renal impairment). If creatinine clearance is less than 20 mL/min, the drug should not be used.

Administration

For store information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Oral Administration
Oral Solid Formulations


Administer on an empty stomach (i.e., 1 hour before or 2 hours after a meal) with plenty of fluids.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

1.5 grams/day PO.

Geriatric

1.5 grams/day PO.

Adolescents

15 mg/kg/day PO, not to exceed 1.5 grams/day PO.

Children

Detailed studies have not established optimum dosage or dose intervals. 15 mg/kg/day PO, not to exceed 1.5 grams/day PO, whichever is less.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

Lithostat 250mg Tablet

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

Renal Impairment

CrCl >= 20 mL/min and serum creatinine > 1.8 mg/dL: No more than 1 gram/day PO administered in 2 divided doses. Further reductions may be required. Adequate data do not exist to determine the optimum dose and/or dose interval in patients with renal impairment.
CrCl < 20 mL/min or serum creatinine > 2.5 mg/dL: Contraindicated.

© 2026 Elsevier