=== Carisoprodol (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 93)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Carisoprodol is a central-acting, oral skeletal muscle relaxant indicated for relief of acute, painful musculoskeletal conditions.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 1,400 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): agitation, ataxia, dizziness, drowsiness, headache, impaired cognition, insomnia, irritability, syncope, tremor, vertigo, flushing, orthostatic hypotension, sinus tachycardia

In an Overdose: Seizures occurred in patients with and without medical history of seizures and have been reported during therapeutic use, overdose, and during withdrawal from prolonged use. Most post-marketing reports of seizures occurred in the setting of multiple drug overdoses including drugs of abuse, illegal drugs, and alcohol.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Carisoprodol is contraindicated in acute intermittent porphyria because it can potentiate the disease. Carisoprodol is contraindicated in patients with a known carbamate hypersensitivity because carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate.

Brand Names
  - Soma
  - Vanadom

Dosage Forms
  - Carisoprodol 250mg Oral tablet
  - Carisoprodol 350mg Oral tablet
  - Carisoprodol Bulk powder
  - Soma 250mg Tablet
  - Soma 350mg Tablet
  - Soma 350mg Tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults 18 to 65 years of age
        Dosage Description
        250 mg to 350 mg PO 3 times daily and at bedtime. To reduce abuse potential, the duration of therapy should not exceed 2 to 3 weeks; data supporting efficacy for prolonged periods are not available.
        Heading
        Adolescents 16 years and older
        Dosage Description
        250 mg to 350 mg PO 3 times daily and at bedtime. To reduce abuse potential, the duration of therapy should not exceed 2 to 3 weeks; data supporting efficacy for prolonged periods are not available.
    Heading
    For treatment of musculoskeletal pain associated with acute, painful musculoskeletal conditions

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Carisoprodol is contraindicated in acute intermittent porphyria because it can potentiate the disease.
 
Carisoprodol is contraindicated in patients with a known carbamate hypersensitivity because carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate.
 
Carisoprodol is metabolized in the liver and should be used with caution in patients with hepatic disease. Hepatic dysfunction can reduce the excretion rate and possibly lead to toxicity. Cautious carisoprodol use is advised for patients with reduced CYP2C19 activity. As compared with data from patients with normal CYP2C19 activity, patients who are poor CYP2C19 metabolizers have a 4-fold increased exposure to carisoprodol and a concomitant 50% reduced exposure to meprobamate. The prevalence of CYP2C19 poor metabolizers in Caucasian and African American patients is approximately 3—5% and in Asian patients is approximately 15—20%.
 
Carisoprodol is excreted in the urine and should be used with caution in patients with renal disease. Renal impairment or renal failure can reduce the excretion rate of metabolites such as meprobamate (minor active metabolite). Carisoprodol is removed by hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis.
 
Carisoprodol is poorly tolerated in the elderly due to anticholinergic and sedative effects. Efficacy is questionable at doses tolerated by the elderly. The efficacy, safety, and pharmacokinetic parameter values of carisoprodol in patients over 65 years of age have not been established. It is recommended that carisoprodol be avoided in patients 65 years of age and older.
 
Carisoprodol should be used with caution in patients with CNS depression. Carisoprodol is a centrally acting agent and can exacerbate CNS depression. Carisoprodol may impair mental or physical abilities required for driving or operating machinery. There may be an additive effect and an increase in CNS depression if carisoprodol is combined with ethanol or other CNS depressants. Use caution with simultaneous administration.
 
Carisoprodol should be used with caution in patients with a seizure disorder. Seizures have been reported rarely during post-marketing surveillance in temporal association with carisoprodol. Seizures occurred in patients with and without medical history of seizures and have been reported during therapeutic use, overdose, and during withdrawal from prolonged use.
 
Carisoprodol should be used with caution in patients with a history of substance abuse or dependency. Psychological dependence and drug abuse have been reported with carisoprodol. Withdrawal reactions after abrupt discontinuation of carisoprodol have occurred but appear to be mild and less severe than benzodiazepine withdrawal. Avoid abrupt discontinuation of carisoprodol. Abrupt interruption of therapy with carisoprodol at doses five times those recommended produced mild withdrawal symptoms. Although carisoprodol is not officially categorized as a controlled substance, the possibility of dependence and withdrawal exists.
 
Carisoprodol is considered to be in FDA pregnancy category C. Carisoprodol has not been studied in humans during pregnancy. It is unknown if carisoprodol would have effects on reproductive capacity. Based on animal studies, carisoprodol crosses the placenta, and causes adverse effects on fetal growth and postnatal survival. Carisoprodol should be used only when the benefits outweigh the risks. There are no data available on the effects of carisoprodol on the mother and the fetus during labor and delivery.
 
Carisoprodol is distributed into breast milk in concentrations 2—4 times higher than those of maternal plasma. Carisoprodol should be avoided in breast-feeding mothers. A case report indicated that a nursing infant received about 4—6% of the maternal dose through breast milk but did not experience adverse effects. However, the infant required supplementation with formula because milk production was inadequate. It's suggested that maternal use of carisoprodol may result in reduced or less effective infant feeding (due to sedation) and/or decreased milk production. If carisoprodol administration cannot be avoided in a lactating mother, a decision regarding whether to continue breast-feeding should be made. Breast-feeding infants should be monitored for sedation, GI upset, or other changes in behavior or activities.
 
Carisoprodol is not recommended for adolescents and children under the age of 16 years because safe and effective use has not been established in pediatric patients. No pediatric specific problems have been documented.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    acute intermittent porphyria
    General Information
    Carisoprodol is contraindicated in acute intermittent porphyria because it can potentiate the disease.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Carisoprodol is contraindicated in individuals with a known carbamate hypersensitivity, such as hypersensitivity to meprobamate.
    Headline
    activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery
    General Information
    Advise individuals against driving or operating machinery or doing any activities requiring coordination and concentration until the effects of carisoprodol are known. Carisoprodol can cause sedation, which may interfere with everyday activity.
    Headline
    Asian patients, Child-Pugh class C, CYP2C19 poor metabolizer, hepatic failure
    General Information
    Carisoprodol is metabolized in the liver and should be used with caution in people with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C) or hepatic failure. While caution is also advised in patients with mild or moderate liver impairment, no carisoprodol dosage adjustments are specifically recommended. Also, use caution if a patient is a CYP2C19 poor metabolizer, as these individuals have significantly increased carisoprodol exposure. The prevalence of CYP2C19 poor metabolizers in White and Black subjects is approximately 3% to 5% and in Asian patients is approximately 15% to 20%.
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    Carisoprodol is excreted by the kidney and should be used with caution in people with renal impairment or renal failure. Carisoprodol is removed by hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis.
    Headline
    substance abuse disorder
    General Information
    Carisoprodol should be used with caution in individuals with a history of substance abuse disorder or dependency. Psychological dependence, drug abuse, drug misuse, and criminal diversion have been reported with prolonged use of carisoprodol and with meprobamate, 1 of the metabolites of carisoprodol. Drug discontinuation/withdrawal symptoms have been reported after abrupt discontinuation of the drug. To reduce the potential of abuse, limit the duration of therapy to a maximum of 3 weeks.
    Headline
    geriatric
    General Information
    The Beers Criteria identifies skeletal muscle relaxants, such as carisoprodol, as potentially inappropriate for geriatric adults. This is due to poor tolerance, potential anticholinergic effects, sedation, increased fracture risk, and questionable effectiveness at dosages that older adults can tolerate.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Due to the potential risks to the fetus and considering that the use of carisoprodol is rarely a matter of urgency, the use of carisoprodol during the first trimester should almost always be avoided. Meprobamate, the primary active metabolite of carisoprodol, crosses the placental barrier and is present in cord blood at or near maternal plasma concentrations during pregnancy. Early studies suggested an increased risk of congenital malformations associated with the use of minor tranquilizers (including meprobamate) during the first trimester of pregnancy; the types of malformations reported in these studies have varied. Retrospective postmarketing studies of meprobamate use in human pregnancy have not consistently demonstrated an increased risk or pattern of major birth defects following exposure during the first trimester. For children exposed to meprobamate in utero, one study found no adverse effect on mental or motor development or IQ scores. Data from many decades of carisoprodol use in pregnancy have not identified a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. In animal studies, pregnant mice exposed to carisoprodol from 7 days prior to gestation through weaning at doses above the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) resulted in reduced fetal weights, postnatal weight gain, and postnatal survival. The effects of carisoprodol on labor and delivery are unknown.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use carisoprodol with caution during breast-feeding. Published data indicate carisoprodol and its metabolite, meprobamate, are present in breast milk. There are no data on the effect of carisoprodol on milk production. There is one report of sedation in an infant who was breastfed by a mother taking carisoprodol. Because there have been no consistent reports of adverse events in breastfed infants over decades of use, the developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding should be considered along with the clinical need for carisoprodol and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from the drug or from the underlying maternal condition. Monitor infants exposed to carisoprodol via breast milk for sedation.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Due to the potential risks to the fetus and considering that the use of carisoprodol is rarely a matter of urgency, the use of carisoprodol during the first trimester should almost always be avoided. Meprobamate, the primary active metabolite of carisoprodol, crosses the placental barrier and is present in cord blood at or near maternal plasma concentrations during pregnancy. Early studies suggested an increased risk of congenital malformations associated with the use of minor tranquilizers (including meprobamate) during the first trimester of pregnancy; the types of malformations reported in these studies have varied. Retrospective postmarketing studies of meprobamate use in human pregnancy have not consistently demonstrated an increased risk or pattern of major birth defects following exposure during the first trimester. For children exposed to meprobamate in utero, one study found no adverse effect on mental or motor development or IQ scores. Data from many decades of carisoprodol use in pregnancy have not identified a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. In animal studies, pregnant mice exposed to carisoprodol from 7 days prior to gestation through weaning at doses above the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) resulted in reduced fetal weights, postnatal weight gain, and postnatal survival. The effects of carisoprodol on labor and delivery are unknown.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use carisoprodol with caution during breast-feeding. Published data indicate carisoprodol and its metabolite, meprobamate, are present in breast milk. There are no data on the effect of carisoprodol on milk production. There is one report of sedation in an infant who was breastfed by a mother taking carisoprodol. Because there have been no consistent reports of adverse events in breastfed infants over decades of use, the developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding should be considered along with the clinical need for carisoprodol and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from the drug or from the underlying maternal condition. Monitor infants exposed to carisoprodol via breast milk for sedation.

Interactions
AbobotulinumtoxinA: (Moderate) Excessive neuromuscular weakness may be exacerbated by coadministration of a botulinum toxin with skeletal muscle relaxants. Advise patients to seek medical assistance if they develop any unusual symptoms (including difficulty with swallowing, speaking, or breathing or walking), or if any existing symptom worsens during use of a botulinum toxin.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate, a significant CNS depressant. Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness, may occur if carisoprodol is taken with sedating H1-blockers. Utilize appropriate caution if carisoprodol is coadministered with another CNS depressant.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with carisoprodol may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with carisoprodol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking carisoprodol.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate, a significant CNS depressant. Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness, may occur if carisoprodol is taken with sedating H1-blockers. Utilize appropriate caution if carisoprodol is coadministered with another CNS depressant.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate, a significant CNS depressant. Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness, may occur if carisoprodol is taken with sedating H1-blockers. Utilize appropriate caution if carisoprodol is coadministered with another CNS depressant.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate, a significant CNS depressant. Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness, may occur if carisoprodol is taken with sedating H1-blockers. Utilize appropriate caution if carisoprodol is coadministered with another CNS depressant.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate, a significant CNS depressant. Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness, may occur if carisoprodol is taken with sedating H1-blockers. Utilize appropriate caution if carisoprodol is coadministered with another CNS depressant.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate, a significant CNS depressant. Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness, may occur if carisoprodol is taken with sedating H1-blockers. Utilize appropriate caution if carisoprodol is coadministered with another CNS depressant.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate, a significant CNS depressant. Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness, may occur if carisoprodol is taken with sedating H1-blockers. Utilize appropriate caution if carisoprodol is coadministered with another CNS depressant.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with carisoprodol may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with carisoprodol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking carisoprodol.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Moderate) Carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate, a significant CNS depressant. Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness, may occur if carisoprodol is taken with sedating H1-blockers. Utilize appropriate caution if carisoprodol is coadministered with another CNS depressant.
Acetaminophen; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate, a significant CNS depressant. Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness, may occur if carisoprodol is taken with sedating H1-blockers. Utilize appropriate caution if carisoprodol is coadministered with another CNS depressant.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with carisoprodol may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with carisoprodol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking carisoprodol.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with carisoprodol may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with carisoprodol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Reduce the initial oxycodone dosage by one-third to one-half when using the extended-release tablets.
Acetaminophen; Pamabrom; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate, a significant CNS depressant. Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness, may occur if carisoprodol is taken with sedating H1-blockers. Utilize appropriate caution if carisoprodol is coadministered with another CNS depressant.
ALFentanil: (Major) Concomitant use of alfentanil with carisoprodol may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with carisoprodol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
ALPRAZolam: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of carisoprodol with tricyclic antidepressants can result in additive CNS depression (sedation and dizziness), which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness.
Amobarbital: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Amoxapine: (Moderate) Skeletal muscle relaxants should be combined cautiously with cyclic antidepressants like maprotiline because they could cause additive CNS depressant effects. Depending on the specific agent (e.g., cyclobenzaprine, and orphenadrine), additive anticholinergic effects may also be seen. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Patients should be monitored for excessive adverse effects from either agent.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Minor) Carisoprodol is extensively metabolized and is a significant substrate of CYP2C19 isoenzymes. Theoretically, CY2C19 inhibitors, such as omeprazole, could increase carisoprodol plasma levels, with potential for enhanced CNS depressant effects.
Apalutamide: (Moderate) Monitor for an altered clinical response to carisoprodol if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. Carisoprodol is metabolized by CYP2C19 to form meprobamate. Apalutamide is a strong CYP2C19 inducer. Coadministration could decrease exposure to carisoprodol and increase exposure to meprobamate. The full pharmacological impact of these potential alterations of exposures in terms of either efficacy or safety of carisoprodol is unknown.
Apomorphine: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and CNS depressants could result in additive depressant effects.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with carisoprodol may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with carisoprodol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking carisoprodol.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Minor) Carisoprodol is extensively metabolized and is a significant substrate of CYP2C19 isoenzymes. Theoretically, CY2C19 inhibitors, such as omeprazole, could increase carisoprodol plasma levels, with potential for enhanced CNS depressant effects.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with carisoprodol may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with carisoprodol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Reduce the initial oxycodone dosage by one-third to one-half when using the extended-release tablets.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of diphenoxylate/difenoxin with carisoprodol can potentiate the CNS-depressant effects of diphenoxylate/difenoxin. Use caution during coadministration.
Azelastine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of azelastine and skeletal muscle relaxants. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Azelastine; Fluticasone: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of azelastine and skeletal muscle relaxants. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Barbiturates: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Belladonna; Opium: (Major) Concomitant use of opoid agonists with carisoprodol may cause respiratory depression, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid agonists with carisoprodol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Consider prescribing naloxone for emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Major) Concomitant use of benzhydrocodone with carisoprodol may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with carisoprodol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Benzodiazepines: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Bortezomib: (Minor) Carisoprodol is extensively metabolized and is a significant substrate of CYP2C19 isoenzymes. Theoretically, CY2C19 inhibitors, such as bortezomib, could increase carisoprodol plasma levels, with potential for enhanced CNS depressant effects.
Botulinum Toxins: (Moderate) Excessive neuromuscular weakness may be exacerbated by coadministration of a botulinum toxin with skeletal muscle relaxants. Advise patients to seek medical assistance if they develop any unusual symptoms (including difficulty with swallowing, speaking, or breathing or walking), or if any existing symptom worsens during use of a botulinum toxin.
Brompheniramine: (Moderate) Carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate, a significant CNS depressant. Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness, may occur if carisoprodol is taken with sedating H1-blockers. Utilize appropriate caution if carisoprodol is coadministered with another CNS depressant.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate, a significant CNS depressant. Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness, may occur if carisoprodol is taken with sedating H1-blockers. Utilize appropriate caution if carisoprodol is coadministered with another CNS depressant.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate, a significant CNS depressant. Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness, may occur if carisoprodol is taken with sedating H1-blockers. Utilize appropriate caution if carisoprodol is coadministered with another CNS depressant.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate, a significant CNS depressant. Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness, may occur if carisoprodol is taken with sedating H1-blockers. Utilize appropriate caution if carisoprodol is coadministered with another CNS depressant.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate, a significant CNS depressant. Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness, may occur if carisoprodol is taken with sedating H1-blockers. Utilize appropriate caution if carisoprodol is coadministered with another CNS depressant.
Buprenorphine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of buprenorphine with other CNS depressants can lead to additive CNS depressive effects. Hypotension, profound sedation, coma, respiratory depression, or death may occur; examples of other CNS depressants can include skeletal muscle relaxants. Prior to concurrent use of buprenorphine in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted. It is recommended that the injectable buprenorphine dose be halved for patients who receive other drugs with CNS depressant effects; for the buprenorphine transdermal patch, start with the 5 mcg/hour patch. Monitor patients for sedation or respiratory depression.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of buprenorphine with other CNS depressants can lead to additive CNS depressive effects. Hypotension, profound sedation, coma, respiratory depression, or death may occur; examples of other CNS depressants can include skeletal muscle relaxants. Prior to concurrent use of buprenorphine in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted. It is recommended that the injectable buprenorphine dose be halved for patients who receive other drugs with CNS depressant effects; for the buprenorphine transdermal patch, start with the 5 mcg/hour patch. Monitor patients for sedation or respiratory depression.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with carisoprodol may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with carisoprodol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking carisoprodol. (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with carisoprodol may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with carisoprodol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking carisoprodol. (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Butorphanol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of butorphanol with other CNS depressants, such as carisoprodol, can potentiate the effects of butorphanol on respiratory depression, CNS depression, and sedation.
Calcium, Magnesium, Potassium, Sodium Oxybates: (Major) Sodium oxybate should not be used in combination with CNS depressant anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics or other sedative CNS depressant drugs. Additive CNS depressant effects may be possible when sodium oxybate is used concurrently with skeletal muscle relaxants.
Cannabidiol: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of cannabidiol and carisoprodol. CNS depressants can potentiate the effects of cannabidiol. Additionally, monitor for an altered clinical response to carisoprodol if coadministration is necessary. Carisoprodol is metabolized by CYP2C19 to form meprobamate; cannabidiol is a moderate CYP2C19 inhibitor. Coadministration could increase exposure to carisoprodol and decrease exposure to meprobamate. The full pharmacological impact of these potential alterations of exposure in terms of either efficacy or safety of carisoprodol is unknown.
Carbidopa; Levodopa; Entacapone: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including skeletal muscle relaxants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Carbinoxamine: (Moderate) Carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate, a significant CNS depressant. Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness, may occur if carisoprodol is taken with sedating H1-blockers. Utilize appropriate caution if carisoprodol is coadministered with another CNS depressant.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Major) Concomitant use of tramadol with a skeletal muscle relaxant may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with a skeletal muscle relaxant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Cenobamate: (Moderate) Monitor for an altered clinical response to carisoprodol if coadministration with cenobamate is necessary. Carisoprodol is metabolized by CYP2C19 to form meprobamate. Cenobamate is a moderate CYP2C19 inducer. Coadministration could decrease exposure to carisoprodol and increase exposure to meprobamate. The full pharmacological impact of these potential alterations of exposure in terms of either efficacy or safety of carisoprodol is unknown. Additionally, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of cenobamate and carisoprodol. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Cetirizine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of cetirizine and skeletal muscle relaxants due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of cetirizine and skeletal muscle relaxants due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Chlophedianol; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate, a significant CNS depressant. Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness, may occur if carisoprodol is taken with sedating H1-blockers. Utilize appropriate caution if carisoprodol is coadministered with another CNS depressant.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate, a significant CNS depressant. Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness, may occur if carisoprodol is taken with sedating H1-blockers. Utilize appropriate caution if carisoprodol is coadministered with another CNS depressant.
Chlorcyclizine: (Moderate) Carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate, a significant CNS depressant. Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness, may occur if carisoprodol is taken with sedating H1-blockers. Utilize appropriate caution if carisoprodol is coadministered with another CNS depressant.
chlordiazePOXIDE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of carisoprodol with tricyclic antidepressants can result in additive CNS depression (sedation and dizziness), which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate, a significant CNS depressant. Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness, may occur if carisoprodol is taken with sedating H1-blockers. Utilize appropriate caution if carisoprodol is coadministered with another CNS depressant.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with carisoprodol may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with carisoprodol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking carisoprodol. (Moderate) Carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate, a significant CNS depressant. Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness, may occur if carisoprodol is taken with sedating H1-blockers. Utilize appropriate caution if carisoprodol is coadministered with another CNS depressant.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate, a significant CNS depressant. Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness, may occur if carisoprodol is taken with sedating H1-blockers. Utilize appropriate caution if carisoprodol is coadministered with another CNS depressant.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate, a significant CNS depressant. Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness, may occur if carisoprodol is taken with sedating H1-blockers. Utilize appropriate caution if carisoprodol is coadministered with another CNS depressant.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate, a significant CNS depressant. Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness, may occur if carisoprodol is taken with sedating H1-blockers. Utilize appropriate caution if carisoprodol is coadministered with another CNS depressant.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with carisoprodol may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with carisoprodol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking carisoprodol. (Moderate) Carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate, a significant CNS depressant. Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness, may occur if carisoprodol is taken with sedating H1-blockers. Utilize appropriate caution if carisoprodol is coadministered with another CNS depressant.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate, a significant CNS depressant. Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness, may occur if carisoprodol is taken with sedating H1-blockers. Utilize appropriate caution if carisoprodol is coadministered with another CNS depressant.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate, a significant CNS depressant. Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness, may occur if carisoprodol is taken with sedating H1-blockers. Utilize appropriate caution if carisoprodol is coadministered with another CNS depressant.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate, a significant CNS depressant. Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness, may occur if carisoprodol is taken with sedating H1-blockers. Utilize appropriate caution if carisoprodol is coadministered with another CNS depressant.
chlorproMAZINE: (Moderate) Phenothiazines can potentiate the CNS-depressant action of other drugs such as skeletal muscle relaxants. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential for additive hypotension and excessive CNS effects (sedation and dizziness), which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness.
Cimetidine: (Minor) Carisoprodol is extensively metabolized and is a significant substrate of CYP2C19 isoenzymes. Theoretically, CY2C19 inhibitors, such as cimetidine, could increase carisoprodol plasma levels, with potential for enhanced CNS depressant effects.
Clemastine: (Moderate) Carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate, a significant CNS depressant. Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness, may occur if carisoprodol is taken with sedating H1-blockers. Utilize appropriate caution if carisoprodol is coadministered with another CNS depressant.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of carisoprodol with tricyclic antidepressants can result in additive CNS depression (sedation and dizziness), which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness.
clonazePAM: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Clorazepate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Skeletal muscle relaxants should be combined cautiously with clozapine because they could cause additive depressant effects and possible respiratory depression or hypotension.
Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with carisoprodol may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with carisoprodol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking carisoprodol.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with carisoprodol may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with carisoprodol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking carisoprodol. (Moderate) Carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate, a significant CNS depressant. Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness, may occur if carisoprodol is taken with sedating H1-blockers. Utilize appropriate caution if carisoprodol is coadministered with another CNS depressant.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with carisoprodol may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with carisoprodol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking carisoprodol.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with carisoprodol may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with carisoprodol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking carisoprodol.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with carisoprodol may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with carisoprodol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking carisoprodol. (Moderate) Phenothiazines can potentiate the CNS-depressant action of other drugs such as skeletal muscle relaxants. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential for additive hypotension and excessive CNS effects (sedation and dizziness), which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with carisoprodol may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with carisoprodol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking carisoprodol. (Moderate) Phenothiazines can potentiate the CNS-depressant action of other drugs such as skeletal muscle relaxants. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential for additive hypotension and excessive CNS effects (sedation and dizziness), which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness.
COMT inhibitors: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including skeletal muscle relaxants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Cyproheptadine: (Moderate) Carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate, a significant CNS depressant. Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness, may occur if carisoprodol is taken with sedating H1-blockers. Utilize appropriate caution if carisoprodol is coadministered with another CNS depressant.
DaxibotulinumtoxinA: (Moderate) Excessive neuromuscular weakness may be exacerbated by coadministration of a botulinum toxin with skeletal muscle relaxants. Advise patients to seek medical assistance if they develop any unusual symptoms (including difficulty with swallowing, speaking, or breathing or walking), or if any existing symptom worsens during use of a botulinum toxin.
Desipramine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of carisoprodol with tricyclic antidepressants can result in additive CNS depression (sedation and dizziness), which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness.
Deutetrabenazine: (Moderate) Advise patients that concurrent use of deutetrabenazine and drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as carisoprodol, may have additive effects and worsen drowsiness or sedation.
Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate, a significant CNS depressant. Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness, may occur if carisoprodol is taken with sedating H1-blockers. Utilize appropriate caution if carisoprodol is coadministered with another CNS depressant.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate, a significant CNS depressant. Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness, may occur if carisoprodol is taken with sedating H1-blockers. Utilize appropriate caution if carisoprodol is coadministered with another CNS depressant.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate, a significant CNS depressant. Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness, may occur if carisoprodol is taken with sedating H1-blockers. Utilize appropriate caution if carisoprodol is coadministered with another CNS depressant.
Dexchlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate, a significant CNS depressant. Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness, may occur if carisoprodol is taken with sedating H1-blockers. Utilize appropriate caution if carisoprodol is coadministered with another CNS depressant.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate, a significant CNS depressant. Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness, may occur if carisoprodol is taken with sedating H1-blockers. Utilize appropriate caution if carisoprodol is coadministered with another CNS depressant.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Moderate) Due to the anesthetic effects of dexmedetomidine, concurrent use with other CNS depressants, such as skeletal muscle relaxants, could result in additive sedative effects and possibly prolong recovery from anesthesia. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate, a significant CNS depressant. Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness, may occur if carisoprodol is taken with sedating H1-blockers. Utilize appropriate caution if carisoprodol is coadministered with another CNS depressant.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Difelikefalin: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
dimenhyDRINATE: (Moderate) Carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate, a significant CNS depressant. Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness, may occur if carisoprodol is taken with sedating H1-blockers. Utilize appropriate caution if carisoprodol is coadministered with another CNS depressant.
diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate, a significant CNS depressant. Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness, may occur if carisoprodol is taken with sedating H1-blockers. Utilize appropriate caution if carisoprodol is coadministered with another CNS depressant.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate, a significant CNS depressant. Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness, may occur if carisoprodol is taken with sedating H1-blockers. Utilize appropriate caution if carisoprodol is coadministered with another CNS depressant.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate, a significant CNS depressant. Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness, may occur if carisoprodol is taken with sedating H1-blockers. Utilize appropriate caution if carisoprodol is coadministered with another CNS depressant.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate, a significant CNS depressant. Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness, may occur if carisoprodol is taken with sedating H1-blockers. Utilize appropriate caution if carisoprodol is coadministered with another CNS depressant.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of diphenoxylate/difenoxin with carisoprodol can potentiate the CNS-depressant effects of diphenoxylate/difenoxin. Use caution during coadministration.
Doxepin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of carisoprodol with tricyclic antidepressants can result in additive CNS depression (sedation and dizziness), which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness.
Doxylamine: (Moderate) Carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate, a significant CNS depressant. Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness, may occur if carisoprodol is taken with sedating H1-blockers. Utilize appropriate caution if carisoprodol is coadministered with another CNS depressant.
Doxylamine; Pyridoxine: (Moderate) Carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate, a significant CNS depressant. Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness, may occur if carisoprodol is taken with sedating H1-blockers. Utilize appropriate caution if carisoprodol is coadministered with another CNS depressant.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with dronabinol can result in additive CNS depression and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Utilize appropriate caution if these drugs are given together.
droPERidol: (Major) Central nervous system depressants, such as carisoprodol have additive or potentiating effects with droperidol. Following administration of droperidol, lower doses of the other CNS depressant should be used.
Efavirenz: (Minor) Carisoprodol is extensively metabolized and is a significant substrate of CYP2C19 isoenzymes. Theoretically, CY2C19 inhibitors, such as efavirenz, could increase carisoprodol plasma levels, with potential for enhanced CNS depressant effects.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Minor) Carisoprodol is extensively metabolized and is a significant substrate of CYP2C19 isoenzymes. Theoretically, CY2C19 inhibitors, such as efavirenz, could increase carisoprodol plasma levels, with potential for enhanced CNS depressant effects.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Minor) Carisoprodol is extensively metabolized and is a significant substrate of CYP2C19 isoenzymes. Theoretically, CY2C19 inhibitors, such as efavirenz, could increase carisoprodol plasma levels, with potential for enhanced CNS depressant effects.
Entacapone: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including skeletal muscle relaxants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Enzalutamide: (Minor) Monitor for decreased efficacy of carisoprodol if coadministration with enzalutamide is necessary. Carisoprodol is a CYP2C19 substrate and enzalutamide is a moderate CYP2C19 inducer. The full pharmacological impact of this interaction is unknown.
Esketamine: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and skeletal muscle relaxants for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Patients who receive a dose of esketamine should not drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Eslicarbazepine: (Minor) Eslicarbazepine may inhibit the CYP2C19-mediated metabolism of carisoprodol resulting in increased concentrations of carisoprodol. Carisoprodol is extensively metabolized and is a significant substrate of CYP2C19 isoenzymes. The formation of meprobamate (active metabolite of carisoprodol) is catalyzed by CYP2C19. CYP2C19 inhibitors such as eslicarbazepine could increase carisoprodol plasma concentrations and decrease meprobamate concentrations, with potential for enhanced CNS depressant effects. The full pharmacological impact of these potential alterations of exposures in terms of either efficacy or safety of carisoprodol is unknown.
Esomeprazole: (Minor) Esomeprazole may inhibit the CYP2C19 isoenzyme, leading to increased plasma levels of drugs that are substrates for the CYP2C19 isoenzyme, such as carisoprodol. Carisoprdol is metabolized in the liver by CYP2C19 to form meprobamate. Coadministration may result in increased exposure to carisoprdol and decreased exposure of meprobamate.
Estazolam: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Eszopiclone: (Moderate) Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants.
Ethanol: (Major) Advise patients to avoid alcohol consumption while taking CNS depressants. Alcohol consumption may result in additive CNS depression.
Etomidate: (Moderate) General anesthetics potentiate the effect of other CNS depressants including carisoprodol.
Fedratinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an altered clinical response to carisoprodol if coadministration with fedratinib is necessary. Carisoprodol is metabolized by CYP2C19 to form meprobamate. Fedratinib is a moderate CYP2C19 inhibitor. Coadministration could increase exposure to carisoprodol and decrease exposure to meprobamate. The full pharmacological impact of these potential alterations of exposures in terms of either efficacy or safety of carisoprodol is unknown.
Felbamate: (Minor) Carisoprodol is extensively metabolized and is a significant substrate of CYP2C19 isoenzymes. Theoretically, CY2C19 inhibitors, such as felbamate, could increase carisoprodol plasma levels, with potential for enhanced CNS depressant effects.
Fenfluramine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of fenfluramine and carisoprodol. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
fentaNYL: (Major) Concomitant use of fentanyl with carisoprodol may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with carisoprodol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Fexinidazole: (Moderate) Monitor for an altered clinical response to carisoprodol if coadministration with fexinidazole is necessary. Carisoprodol is metabolized by CYP2C19 to form meprobamate; fexinidazole is a moderate CYP2C19 inhibitor. Coadministration could increase exposure to carisoprodol and decrease exposure to meprobamate. The full pharmacological impact of these potential alterations of exposure in terms of either efficacy or safety of carisoprodol is unknown.
FLUoxetine: (Minor) Carisoprodol is extensively metabolized and is a significant substrate of CYP2C19 isoenzymes. Theoretically, CY2C19 inhibitors, such as fluoxetine, could increase carisoprodol plasma levels, with potential for enhanced CNS depressant effects.
fluPHENAZine: (Moderate) Phenothiazines can potentiate the CNS-depressant action of other drugs such as skeletal muscle relaxants. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential for additive hypotension and excessive CNS effects (sedation and dizziness), which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness.
Flurazepam: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
fluvoxaMINE: (Minor) Carisoprodol is extensively metabolized and is a significant substrate of CYP2C19 isoenzymes. Theoretically, CY2C19 inhibitors, such as fluvoxamine, could increase carisoprodol plasma levels, with potential for enhanced CNS depressant effects.
Food: (Major) Advise patients to avoid cannabis use while taking CNS depressants due to the risk for additive CNS depression and potential for other cognitive adverse reactions.
Fosphenytoin: (Minor) Carisoprodol is metabolized by CYP2C19 to form meprobamate. Inducers of CYP2C19 like fosphenytoin could result in decreased exposure of carisoprodol and increased exposure of meprobamate. The clinical significance of these potential alterations of carisoprodol exposure is unknown.
Gabapentin: (Major) Initiate gabapentin at the lowest recommended dose and monitor patients for symptoms of sedation and somnolence during coadministration of gabapentin and carisoprodol. Concomitant use of gabapentin with carisoprodol may cause additive CNS depression. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
General anesthetics: (Moderate) General anesthetics potentiate the effect of other CNS depressants including carisoprodol.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with carisoprodol may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with carisoprodol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking carisoprodol.
HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with carisoprodol may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with carisoprodol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking carisoprodol.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with carisoprodol may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with carisoprodol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking carisoprodol.
HYDROmorphone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with carisoprodol may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with carisoprodol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations.
hydrOXYzine: (Moderate) Carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate, a significant CNS depressant. Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness, may occur if carisoprodol is taken with sedating H1-blockers. Utilize appropriate caution if carisoprodol is coadministered with another CNS depressant.
Imipramine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of carisoprodol with tricyclic antidepressants can result in additive CNS depression (sedation and dizziness), which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness.
IncobotulinumtoxinA: (Moderate) Excessive neuromuscular weakness may be exacerbated by coadministration of a botulinum toxin with skeletal muscle relaxants. Advise patients to seek medical assistance if they develop any unusual symptoms (including difficulty with swallowing, speaking, or breathing or walking), or if any existing symptom worsens during use of a botulinum toxin.
Isoflurane: (Moderate) General anesthetics potentiate the effect of other CNS depressants including carisoprodol.
Ketamine: (Moderate) General anesthetics potentiate the effect of other CNS depressants including carisoprodol.
Lasmiditan: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lasmiditan and carisoprodol. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Lemborexant: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lemborexant and carisoprodol. Dosage adjustments of lemborexant and carisoprodol may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if lemborexant is taken with other CNS depressants.
Levocetirizine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of cetirizine and skeletal muscle relaxants due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Levorphanol: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with carisoprodol may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with carisoprodol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Reduce the initial levorphanol dosage by 50% or more.
Lofexidine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive hypotension and sedation during coadministration of lofexidine and carisoprodol. Lofexidine can potentiate the effects of CNS depressants.
Lonafarnib: (Moderate) Monitor for an altered clinical response to carisoprodol if coadministration with lonafarnib is necessary. Carisoprodol is metabolized by CYP2C19 to form meprobamate; lonafarnib is a moderate CYP2C19 inhibitor. Coadministration could increase exposure to carisoprodol and decrease exposure to meprobamate. The full pharmacological impact of these potential alterations of exposure in terms of either efficacy or safety of carisoprodol is unknown.
LORazepam: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Loxapine: (Moderate) Loxapine is a central nervous system (CNS) depressant. The concurrent use of loxapine with other CNS depressants (e.g., muscle relaxants such as carisprodol) can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and syncope. Therefore, consider reducing the dose of CNS depressants if used concomitantly with loxapine.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Minor) Carisoprodol is extensively metabolized and is a significant substrate of CYP2C19 isoenzymes. The formation of meprobamate (active metabolite of carisoprodol) is catalyzed by CYP2C19. In vitro data suggest that lumacaftor may induce CYP2C19. If these drugs are coadministered, the potential exists for increased metabolism of carisoprodol. Theoretically, carisoprodol plasma concentrations could be decreased, and meprobamate (active metabolite) plasma concentrations could be increased. The full pharmacological impact of these potential alterations of exposures in terms of either efficacy or safety of carisoprodol is unknown.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Minor) Carisoprodol is extensively metabolized and is a significant substrate of CYP2C19 isoenzymes. The formation of meprobamate (active metabolite of carisoprodol) is catalyzed by CYP2C19. In vitro data suggest that lumacaftor may induce CYP2C19. If these drugs are coadministered, the potential exists for increased metabolism of carisoprodol. Theoretically, carisoprodol plasma concentrations could be decreased, and meprobamate (active metabolite) plasma concentrations could be increased. The full pharmacological impact of these potential alterations of exposures in terms of either efficacy or safety of carisoprodol is unknown.
Lumateperone: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lumateperone and skeletal muscle relaxants. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Meclizine: (Moderate) Carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate, a significant CNS depressant. Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness, may occur if carisoprodol is taken with sedating H1-blockers. Utilize appropriate caution if carisoprodol is coadministered with another CNS depressant.
Meperidine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with carisoprodol may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with carisoprodol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations.
Meprobamate: (Major) Concomitant use of carisoprodol and meprobamate is not recommended. Meprobamate is an active metabolite of carisoprodol.
Methadone: (Major) Concomitant use of methadone with carisoprodol may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with carisoprodol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Methohexital: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Methscopolamine: (Moderate) CNS depression can be increased when methscopolamine is combined with other CNS depressants such as skeletal muscle relaxants.
metyraPONE: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as carisoprodol, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Midazolam: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Mirtazapine: (Moderate) Skeletal muscle relaxants like carisoprodol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other drugs with CNS depressant properties such as mirtazapine. Combination therapy may amplify sedation and dizziness, which can impair the patient's ability to perform tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary in some instances.
Modafinil: (Minor) Carisoprodol is extensively metabolized and is a significant substrate of CYP2C19 isoenzymes. Theoretically, CY2C19 inhibitors, such as modafinil, could increase carisoprodol plasma levels, with potential for enhanced CNS depressant effects.
Molindone: (Moderate) Simultaneous use of skeletal muscle relaxants and other CNS depressants, such as molindone, can increase CNS depression. In addition, antipsychotics are associated with anticholinergic effects; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use of molindone and other drugs having anticholinergic activity. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
Morphine: (Major) Concomitant use of morphine with carisoprodol may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with carisoprodol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. For extended-release morphine tablets (MS Contin and Morphabond), start with 15 mg every 12 hours. Morphine; naltrexone should be initiated at 1/3 to 1/2 the recommended starting dosage. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Nalbuphine: (Major) Concomitant use of nalbuphine with carisoprodol may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of nalbuphine with carisoprodol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Minor) Esomeprazole may inhibit the CYP2C19 isoenzyme, leading to increased plasma levels of drugs that are substrates for the CYP2C19 isoenzyme, such as carisoprodol. Carisoprdol is metabolized in the liver by CYP2C19 to form meprobamate. Coadministration may result in increased exposure to carisoprdol and decreased exposure of meprobamate.
Nortriptyline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of carisoprodol with tricyclic antidepressants can result in additive CNS depression (sedation and dizziness), which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Minor) Carisoprodol is extensively metabolized and is a significant substrate of CYP2C19 isoenzymes. Theoretically, CY2C19 inhibitors, such as fluoxetine, could increase carisoprodol plasma levels, with potential for enhanced CNS depressant effects.
Oliceridine: (Major) Concomitant use of oliceridine with carisoprodol may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of oliceridine with carisoprodol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Omeprazole: (Minor) Carisoprodol is extensively metabolized and is a significant substrate of CYP2C19 isoenzymes. Theoretically, CY2C19 inhibitors, such as omeprazole, could increase carisoprodol plasma levels, with potential for enhanced CNS depressant effects.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Minor) Carisoprodol is extensively metabolized and is a significant substrate of CYP2C19 isoenzymes. Theoretically, CY2C19 inhibitors, such as omeprazole, could increase carisoprodol plasma levels, with potential for enhanced CNS depressant effects.
Omeprazole; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Minor) Carisoprodol is extensively metabolized and is a significant substrate of CYP2C19 isoenzymes. Theoretically, CY2C19 inhibitors, such as omeprazole, could increase carisoprodol plasma levels, with potential for enhanced CNS depressant effects.
OnabotulinumtoxinA: (Moderate) Excessive neuromuscular weakness may be exacerbated by coadministration of a botulinum toxin with skeletal muscle relaxants. Advise patients to seek medical assistance if they develop any unusual symptoms (including difficulty with swallowing, speaking, or breathing or walking), or if any existing symptom worsens during use of a botulinum toxin.
Opicapone: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including skeletal muscle relaxants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Oritavancin: (Moderate) Carisoprodol is metabolized by CYP2C19; oritavancin is a weak CYP2C19 inhibitor. Coadministration may result in elevated carisoprodol plasma concentrations. If these drugs are administered concurrently, monitor patients for signs of carisoprodol toxicity, such as extreme drowsiness, confusion, or a slowed rate of breathing.
Oxazepam: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
OXcarbazepine: (Minor) Carisoprodol is extensively metabolized and is a significant substrate of CYP2C19 isoenzymes. Theoretically, CY2C19 inhibitors, such as oxcarbazepine, could increase carisoprodol plasma levels, with potential for enhanced CNS depressant effects.
oxyCODONE: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with carisoprodol may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with carisoprodol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Reduce the initial oxycodone dosage by one-third to one-half when using the extended-release tablets.
oxyMORphone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with carisoprodol may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with carisoprodol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Reduce the initial oxymorphone dosage by one-third to one-half.
Pacritinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an altered clinical response to carisoprodol if coadministration with pacritinib is necessary. Carisoprodol is metabolized by CYP2C19 to form meprobamate; pacritinib is a moderate CYP2C19 inducer. Coadministration could decrease exposure to carisoprodol and increase exposure to meprobamate. The full pharmacological impact of these potential alterations of exposure in terms of either efficacy or safety of carisoprodol is unknown.
Pentazocine; Naloxone: (Major) Concomitant use of pentazocine with carisoprodol may cause respiratory depression, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of pentazocine with carisoprodol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
PENTobarbital: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Perampanel: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as carisoprodol.
Perphenazine: (Moderate) Phenothiazines can potentiate the CNS-depressant action of other drugs such as skeletal muscle relaxants. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential for additive hypotension and excessive CNS effects (sedation and dizziness), which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of carisoprodol with tricyclic antidepressants can result in additive CNS depression (sedation and dizziness), which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. (Moderate) Phenothiazines can potentiate the CNS-depressant action of other drugs such as skeletal muscle relaxants. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential for additive hypotension and excessive CNS effects (sedation and dizziness), which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness.
PHENobarbital: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Phenothiazines: (Moderate) Phenothiazines can potentiate the CNS-depressant action of other drugs such as skeletal muscle relaxants. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential for additive hypotension and excessive CNS effects (sedation and dizziness), which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness.
Phenytoin: (Minor) Carisoprodol is extensively metabolized and is a significant substrate of CYP2C19 isoenzymes. If carisoprodol is combined with an inducer of hepatic enzymes, such as phenytoin, the potential exists for increased metabolism of carisoprodol and meprobamate, the active metabolite, plasma concentrations could be increased.
Pregabalin: (Major) Initiate pregabalin at the lowest recommended dose and monitor patients for symptoms of sedation and somnolence during coadministration of pregabalin and carisoprodol. Concomitant use of pregabalin with carisoprodol may cause additive CNS depression. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Primidone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Prochlorperazine: (Moderate) Phenothiazines can potentiate the CNS-depressant action of other drugs such as skeletal muscle relaxants. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential for additive hypotension and excessive CNS effects (sedation and dizziness), which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness.
Promethazine: (Moderate) Phenothiazines can potentiate the CNS-depressant action of other drugs such as skeletal muscle relaxants. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential for additive hypotension and excessive CNS effects (sedation and dizziness), which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Phenothiazines can potentiate the CNS-depressant action of other drugs such as skeletal muscle relaxants. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential for additive hypotension and excessive CNS effects (sedation and dizziness), which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenothiazines can potentiate the CNS-depressant action of other drugs such as skeletal muscle relaxants. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential for additive hypotension and excessive CNS effects (sedation and dizziness), which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness.
Propofol: (Moderate) General anesthetics potentiate the effect of other CNS depressants including carisoprodol.
Protriptyline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of carisoprodol with tricyclic antidepressants can result in additive CNS depression (sedation and dizziness), which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) Carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate, a significant CNS depressant. Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness, may occur if carisoprodol is taken with sedating H1-blockers. Utilize appropriate caution if carisoprodol is coadministered with another CNS depressant.
Quazepam: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Remifentanil: (Major) Concomitant use of remifentanil with carisoprodol may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with carisoprodol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Remimazolam: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
rifAMPin: (Minor) Carisoprodol is metabolized via CYP2C19. The formation of meprobamate (active metabolite of carisoprodol) is catalyzed by CYP2C19. If carisoprodol is combined with an inducer of CYP2C19 such as rifampin, the potential exists for increased metabolism of carisoprodol. Theoretically, carisoprodol plasma concentrations could be decreased, and meprobamate (active metabolite) plasma concentrations could be increased. The clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
RimabotulinumtoxinB: (Moderate) Excessive neuromuscular weakness may be exacerbated by coadministration of a botulinum toxin with skeletal muscle relaxants. Advise patients to seek medical assistance if they develop any unusual symptoms (including difficulty with swallowing, speaking, or breathing or walking), or if any existing symptom worsens during use of a botulinum toxin.
Secobarbital: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with barbiturates can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take barbiturates with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Sedating H1-blockers: (Moderate) Carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate, a significant CNS depressant. Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness, may occur if carisoprodol is taken with sedating H1-blockers. Utilize appropriate caution if carisoprodol is coadministered with another CNS depressant.
Sevoflurane: (Moderate) General anesthetics potentiate the effect of other CNS depressants including carisoprodol.
Sodium Oxybate: (Major) Sodium oxybate should not be used in combination with CNS depressant anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics or other sedative CNS depressant drugs. Additive CNS depressant effects may be possible when sodium oxybate is used concurrently with skeletal muscle relaxants.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Minor) Carisoprodol is metabolized via CYP2C19. The formation of meprobamate (active metabolite of carisoprodol) is catalyzed by CYP2C19. If carisoprodol is combined with an inducer of CYP2C19 such as St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum, the potential exists for increased metabolism of carisoprodol. Theoretically, carisoprodol plasma concentrations could be decreased, and meprobamate (active metabolite) plasma concentrations could be increased. The clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Stiripentol: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of stiripentol and carisoprodol. CNS depressants can potentiate the effects of stiripentol.
SUFentanil: (Major) Concomitant use of sufentanil with carisoprodol may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with carisoprodol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Tapentadol: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with carisoprodol may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with carisoprodol to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations.
Temazepam: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Thalidomide: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of thalidomide with other central nervous system depressants such as skeletal muscle relaxants due to the potential for additive sedative effects.
Thioridazine: (Moderate) Phenothiazines can potentiate the CNS-depressant action of other drugs such as skeletal muscle relaxants. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential for additive hypotension and excessive CNS effects (sedation and dizziness), which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness.
Thiothixene: (Moderate) Thiothixene can potentiate the CNS-depressant action of other drugs, such skeletal muscle relaxants. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects or additive hypotension.
Tolcapone: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including skeletal muscle relaxants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Tradipitant: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
traMADol: (Major) Concomitant use of tramadol with a skeletal muscle relaxant may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with a skeletal muscle relaxant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Major) Concomitant use of tramadol with a skeletal muscle relaxant may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with a skeletal muscle relaxant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
traZODone: (Moderate) CNS depressants, such as carisoprodol, should be used cautiously in patients receiving trazodone because of additive CNS-depressant effects, including possible respiratory depression or hypotension. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted.
Triazolam: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Moderate) Concomitant use of carisoprodol with tricyclic antidepressants can result in additive CNS depression (sedation and dizziness), which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness.
Trifluoperazine: (Moderate) Phenothiazines can potentiate the CNS-depressant action of other drugs such as skeletal muscle relaxants. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential for additive hypotension and excessive CNS effects (sedation and dizziness), which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness.
Trimipramine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of carisoprodol with tricyclic antidepressants can result in additive CNS depression (sedation and dizziness), which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness.
Triprolidine: (Moderate) Carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate, a significant CNS depressant. Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness, may occur if carisoprodol is taken with sedating H1-blockers. Utilize appropriate caution if carisoprodol is coadministered with another CNS depressant.
Valerian, Valeriana officinalis: (Moderate) The phytomedicinal herb, valerian, Valeriana officinalis may potentiate the CNS depressant effects of carisoprodol. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness, may also occur.
Voriconazole: (Minor) Carisoprodol is extensively metabolized and is a significant substrate of CYP2C19 isoenzymes. Theoretically, CY2C19 inhibitors, such as voriconazole, could increase carisoprodol plasma levels, with potential for enhanced CNS depressant effects.
Zaleplon: (Moderate) Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants.
Ziconotide: (Moderate) CNS depressant medications, such as carisoprodol, may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide. Due to potentially additive effects, dosage adjustments may be necessary if ziconotide is used with a drug that has CNS depressant effects.
Ziprasidone: (Moderate) Ziprasidone has the potential to impair cognitive and motor skills. Additive CNS depressant effects are possible when ziprasidone is used concurrently with any CNS depressant, including carisoprodol.
Zolpidem: (Moderate) Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants.
Zuranolone: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  Adverse effects most common during carisoprodol therapy are drowsiness (up to 40%) and dizziness, which may require dosage reduction. Other CNS effects can emerge such as vertigo, ataxia, lethargy, tremor, insomnia, agitation, irritability, headache, depression, syncope, weakness (asthenia), fatigue, temporary vision loss (visual impairment), confusion or impaired cognition, mydriasis, and disorientation. Warn patients that activity requiring metal alertness may be affected after carisoprodol administration. Excessive doses of carisoprodol can produce stupor, coma, shock, respiratory depression, and rarely, death. Additive effects from alcohol, other CNS depressants, or psychotropic agents can occur, even when taken within the usual recommended dose.
 
Patients taking carisoprodol may experience cardiovascular adverse events. Sinus tachycardia, orthostatic hypotension, and flushing have been reported in during post-market carisoprodol use. Additive effects from alcohol, other CNS depressants, or psychotropic agents can occur, even when taken within the usual recommended dose.
 
Patients taking carisoprodol may experience gastrointestinal adverse events. Nausea/vomiting, dyspepsia, and increased bowel activity have been reported in during post-market carisoprodol use.
 
Idiosyncratic, allergic or anaphylactoid reactions, may occur within minutes to hours after the first to fourth dose in patients having had no previous exposure to carisoprodol. Although rare, the symptoms may be severe and can include transient quadriplegia, temporary loss of vision or memory, diplopia, extreme weakness, mydriasis, dysarthria (slurred speech), agitation, euphoria, disorientation, and confusion. Rash (unspecified), erythema, pruritus, urticaria, and fixed-drug eruptions can occur. In some patients, hypersensitivity reactions self-resolve after a few hours. If allergic or idiosyncratic reactions continue or are progressive, discontinue carisoprodol and initiate appropriate supportive and symptomatic therapy, which may include antihistamines, corticosteroids, and/or epinephrine.
 
Patients taking carisoprodol may experience hematological adverse events. Leukopenia and pancytopenia have been reported during post-marketing experience.
 
Psychological dependence, drug abuse, and withdrawal have been reported with prolonged use of carisoprodol. Most cases of dependence, withdrawal, and abuse occurred in patients who have had a history of addiction or who used carisoprodol in combination with other drugs with abuse potential. One of the metabolites of carisoprodol, meprobamate, is an FDA approved controlled substance and may cause dependence. Abrupt discontinuance of carisoprodol at doses of 100 mg/kg/day, which is about five times the recommended adult dose, produced mild withdrawal symptoms such as abdominal muscle cramps, insomnia, chills, headache and nausea. Delirium and convulsions were not reported as occurring secondary to withdrawal. Withdrawal reactions after abrupt discontinuation appear to be less severe than benzodiazepine withdrawal. Although carisoprodol is not a controlled substance, the possibility of dependence and withdrawal exists. To reduce the chance of carisoprodol dependence, withdrawal, or abuse, use carisoprodol with caution in addiction-prone patients and in patients taking other CNS depressants such as alcohol. Also, do not use carisoprodol for more than 2—3 weeks for the relief of acute musculoskeletal discomfort.
 
Seizures have been reported rarely during post-marketing surveillance in temporal association with carisoprodol. Seizures occurred in patients with and without medical history of seizures and have been reported during therapeutic use, overdose, and during withdrawal from prolonged use. The exact role of carisoprodol in the cause of these seizures has not been established. Most post-marketing reports of seizures occurred in the setting of multiple drug overdoses including drugs of abuse, illegal drugs, and alcohol.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    agitation, ataxia, dizziness, drowsiness, headache, impaired cognition, insomnia, irritability, syncope, tremor, vertigo
    General Information
    Carisoprodol causes CNS depression and may cause impaired cognition. In controlled trials, drowsiness (13% to 17%), dizziness (7% to 8%), and headache (3% to 5%) occurred in carisoprodol recipients. Other central nervous system adverse effects reported during postmarketing experience with carisoprodol include ataxia, tremor, agitation, irritability, CNS depression, syncope, insomnia, and vertigo.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      agitation
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      ataxia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      impaired cognition
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      irritability
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      syncope
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      tremor
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      vertigo
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    rash, urticaria
    General Information
    Allergic reactions may occur with carisoprodol and its active metabolite, meprobamate. Most of the reported reactions, which seem to be relatively rare, include urticaria or rash.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    flushing, orthostatic hypotension, sinus tachycardia
    General Information
    Sinus tachycardia, orthostatic hypotension, and flushing have been reported during postmarketing experience with carisoprodol.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      flushing
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      orthostatic hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      sinus tachycardia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    dyspepsia, nausea, vomiting, xerostomia
    General Information
    In a review of published clinical trials, xerostomia (dry mouth) occurred in up to 10% of carisoprodol recipients. Postmarketing experience also includes reports of nausea, vomiting, and epigastric discomfort or dyspepsia.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dyspepsia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    leukopenia, pancytopenia
    General Information
    Leukopenia and pancytopenia have been reported during postmarketing experience with carisoprodol.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      leukopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      pancytopenia
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    seizures
    General Information
    Seizures have been reported during postmarketing surveillance in temporal association with carisoprodol. Most postmarketing reports of seizures occurred in the setting of multiple drug overdoses including drugs of abuse, illegal drugs, and alcohol.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      seizures
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    psychological dependence, withdrawal
    General Information
    Psychological dependence, drug abuse, and withdrawal have been reported with prolonged use of carisoprodol and with meprobamate, a metabolite of carisoprodol. Most, though not all, cases of dependence, withdrawal, and abuse occurred in people who have had a history of addiction or who used carisoprodol in combination with other drugs with abuse potential. Symptoms of withdrawal may include insomnia, vomiting, abdominal cramps, headache, tremors, muscle twitching, ataxia, hallucinations, and psychosis.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      psychological dependence
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      withdrawal
      Severity
      Moderate

Description
  Text
  Carisoprodol is a central-acting, oral skeletal muscle relaxant indicated for relief of acute, painful musculoskeletal conditions. Carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate, which has anxiolytic and sedative properties. However, it is unlear to what extent meprobamate contributes to the safety and efficacy of carisoprodol treatment. Carisoprodol has sedative properties and it is a controlled substance. Abuse, dependence, withdrawal, misuse, and criminal diversion have been reported. To limit risks associated with carisoprodol, use is recommended for no more than 2 to 3 weeks and at the lowest effective dose. Carisoprodol was first FDA-approved in 1959.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  The actions of carisoprodol are related to a central (i.e., CNS) mechanism and not to a direct effect on skeletal muscle. Carisoprodol appears to interrupt neuronal communication within the reticular formation and spinal cord. CNS depression produces sedation, and the perception of pain could be altered.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    The onset of action of carisoprodol occurs in about 30 minutes and lasts for 4 to 6 hours after oral administration. The pharmacokinetics are dose-proportional between the 250 and 350 mg doses. Peak plasma concentrations (Cmax) are about 1.2 mcg/mL for a 250 mg dose and 1.8 mcg/mL for a 350 mg dose. The time to peak concentration (Tmax) is about 1.5 to 2 hours. The absolute oral bioavailability of carisoprodol is unknown. Administration with a high-fat meal does not alter the pharmacokinetics. The mean Cmax of meprobamate, a metabolite of carisoprodol, after a single carisoprodol 350 mg dose is about 30% that of a single 400 mg meprobamate PO dose; whereas, after a 250 mg carisoprodol dose, the mean meprobamate Cmax is approximately 22% that of a single 400 mg meprobamate PO dose or about 70% that of a single 350 mg carisoprodol dose.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    The pharmacokinetics of carisoprodol in hepatic impairment have not been studied. Increased systemic exposure to carisoprodol may occur in hepatic impairment.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    The pharmacokinetics of carisoprodol in renal impairment have not been studied. Increased systemic exposure to carisoprodol may occur in renal impairment.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    The pharmacokinetics of carisoprodol in geriatric individuals greater than 65 years old have not been studied.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    The exposure of carisoprodol is higher in female than in male subjects (about 30% to 50% on a weight-adjusted basis); the exposure to meprobamate is comparable in males and females.
    Name
    Other
    Description
    CYP2C19 Poor Metabolizers
Hepatic cytochrome 2C19 exhibits genetic polymorphism; 15% to 20% of people of Asian descent are expected to be poor metabolizers compared 3% to 5% of White and Black people. People who are poor metabolizers can have up to a 4-fold increase in exposure to carisoprodol and a concomitant 50% reduced exposure to meprobamate compared to normal CYP2C19 metabolizers.
  Text
  Carisoprodol is administered orally. It is extensively metabolized by CYP2C19 to meprobamate, an active metabolite. Carisoprodol and meprobamate cross the placenta and are distributed into breast milk. Excretion is by both renal and non-renal routes. The terminal elimination half-life of carisoprodol is approximately 2 hours; the half-life of meprobamate is about 10 hours.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP2C19
Carisoprodol is a substrate for CYP2C19.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Administer with or without food.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    1,400 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    65 years: 1,400 mg/day PO.
66 years and older: Not recommended.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    16 years and older: 1,400 mg/day PO.
Less than 16 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Use carisoprodol with caution in people with hepatic impairment. No quantitative dosage recommendations are available.
  Renal Impairment
  Use carisoprodol with caution in people with renal impairment. No quantitative dosage recommendations are available.
 
Intermittent hemodialysis
Carisoprodol is removed by hemodialysis. No quantitative dosage recommendations are available.
 
Peritoneal dialysis
Carisoprodol is removed by peritoneal dialysis. No quantitative dosage recommendations are available.
