=== Abrocitinib — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 5382)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Abrocitinib is a Janus kinase (JAK) inhibitor, and is considered a targeted synthetic disease-modifying antirheumatic drug (tsDMARD).

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 200 mg/day PO; 100 mg/day PO for CYP2C19 poor metabolizers.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): infection, influenza, pharyngitis, hypertension, myocardial infarction, stroke, dizziness, fatigue, headache

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Prior to starting abrocitinib, obtain a baseline platelet count in all potential drug recipients; do not initiate treatment in patients found to have thrombocytopenia, defined as a platelet count less than 150,000 cells/cm3. Monitor CBC 4 weeks after treatment initiation and 4 weeks after dosing...

ABROCITINIB

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

CIBINQO

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of refractory, moderate to severe atopic dermatitis (eczema) in persons whose disease is not adequately controlled with other systemic medications, including biologics, or when use of those therapies is not advisable

Oral dosage
Adults


100 mg PO once daily, initially. Consider increasing the dose to 200 mg PO once daily if an adequate response is not achieved. Discontinue use if an adequate response is not achieved with the 200 mg dose. Use the lowest effective dose needed to maintain response. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


Adults who are CYP2C19 poor metabolizers


50 mg PO once daily, initially. Consider increasing the dose to 100 mg PO once daily if an adequate response is not achieved. Discontinue use if an adequate response is not achieved with the 100 mg dose. Use the lowest effective dose needed to maintain response.


Children and Adolescents 12 to 17 years


100 mg PO once daily, initially. Consider increasing the dose to 200 mg PO once daily if an adequate response is not achieved. Discontinue use if an adequate response is not achieved with the 200 mg dose. Use the lowest effective dose needed to maintain response. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


Children and Adolescents 12 to 17 years who are CYP2C19 poor metabolizers


50 mg PO once daily, initially. Consider increasing the dose to 100 mg PO once daily if an adequate response is not achieved. Discontinue use if an adequate response is not achieved with the 100 mg dose. Use the lowest effective dose needed to maintain response.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

thrombocytopenia


Abrocitinib has been associated with temporary, dose-related decreases in platelet counts; therefore, use of antiplatelet therapies, except for low-dose aspirin (i.e., 81 mg per day or less), during the first 3 months of abrocitinib treatment is contraindicated. Prior to starting abrocitinib, obtain a baseline platelet count in all potential drug recipients; do not initiate treatment in patients found to have thrombocytopenia, defined as a platelet count less than 150,000 cells/cm3. Monitor CBC 4 weeks after treatment initiation and 4 weeks after dosing increase. If platelet counts fall to less than 50,000 cells/cm3 during therapy, discontinue abrocitinib and follow until counts are back above 100,000 cells/cm3. Laboratory evaluations may be extended for patients on chronic therapy who develop hematologic abnormalities.


Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

lymphopenia, neutropenia


Monitor lymphocyte and neutrophil counts at baseline, 4 weeks after treatment initiation, and 4 weeks after dosage increase. Do not initiate abrocitinib in patients with lymphopenia or neutropenia, defined as an absolute lymphocyte count (ALC) less than 500 cells/mm3 or an absolute neutrophil count (ANC) less than 1,000 cells/mm3, respectively. Interrupt treatment in patients with an ANC less than 1,000 cells/mm3 or an ALC less than 500 cells/mm3 until the counts have recovered to values above these thresholds. Laboratory evaluations may be extended for patients on chronic therapy who develop hematologic abnormalities.


Treatment-Related Restrictions of Use

Abrocitinib is contraindicated in patients taking antiplatelet therapies, except for low-dose aspirin, during the first 3 months of treatment.

anemia


Monitor hemoglobin at baseline, 4 weeks after treatment initiation, and 4 weeks after dosage increase. Do not initiate abrocitinib in patients with anemia, defined as a hemoglobin less than 8 g/dL. If the hemoglobin decreases to less than 8 g/dL, interrupt dosing until hemoglobin values have normalized. Laboratory evaluations may be extended for patients on chronic therapy who develop hematologic abnormalities.


General Information

Ensure all vaccinations are updated in agreement with current immunization guidelines prior to initiating abrocitinib therapy. Avoid vaccination with live vaccines immediately prior to, during, or immediately after abrocitinib therapy.

infection


Avoid the use of abrocitinib in patients with an active, serious infection, including localized infections. Serious and sometimes fatal bacterial infection, mycobacterial infection, invasive fungal infection, viral infection, or infections due to other opportunistic pathogens have been reported in patients receiving JAK inhibitors. The most common serious infections reported with abrocitinib therapy were herpes infection (i.e., herpes simplex, herpes zoster) and pneumonia. Consider the risks and benefits of abrocitinib prior to initiating treatment in patients: 1) with chronic or recurrent infection; 2) who have been exposed to tuberculosis; 3) with a history of a serious or an opportunistic infection; 4) who have resided or traveled in areas of endemic tuberculosis or endemic mycoses; or 5) with underlying conditions that may predispose them to infection [e.g., diabetes mellitus, human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection or acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), chronic pulmonary disease, low lymphocyte counts, and pre-existing immunosuppression]. Ask patients if they have lived or have traveled to the Ohio or Mississippi River valleys or the Southwest because of an increased chance of acquiring certain kinds of fungal infections, such as histoplasmosis, coccidioidomycosis, or blastomycosis. Patients should be closely monitored for the development of signs and symptoms of infection during and after treatment. If a patient develops a serious infection or opportunistic infection, abrocitinib therapy should be interrupted. Patients who develop a new infection should undergo prompt and complete diagnostic evaluation and antimicrobial therapy should be started. Carefully consider the risks and benefits of abrocitinib before reinitiating therapy. If a patient develops herpes zoster, consider stopping abrocitinib therapy until the episode resolves. Evaluate and test all patients for latent or active tuberculosis (TB) infection prior to starting and during abrocitinib treatment. Abrocitinib should not be administered to patients with active tuberculosis infection. Start preventative anti-tuberculosis therapy before initiating abrocitinib in patients with a new diagnosis of latent TB, prior untreated latent TB, or a negative test for latent TB but who are at high risk for TB infection. It is recommended to consult with a physician with expertise in the treatment of tuberculosis to aid in the decision of whether to start anti-tuberculosis therapy. All patients, including those who tested negative for latent tuberculosis infection prior to starting therapy, should be monitored for signs and symptoms of tuberculosis during abrocitinib treatment.


Child-Pugh class C


Abrocitinib is not recommended for use in patients with severe hepatic disease (Child-Pugh class C); however, no dose adjustments are needed in patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class A or Child-Pugh class B). Prior to initiating abrocitinib therapy, screen all potential drug recipients for viral hepatitis, as use of abrocitinib is not recommended in patients with active hepatitis B infection or hepatitis C infection. Treatment with JAK inhibitors has been associated with hepatitis B exacerbation or reactivation; therefore, patients with inactive hepatitis B who receive treatment with abrocitinib should be monitored for expression of hepatitis B virus DNA. If hepatitis B virus DNA is detected during therapy, consult a hepatologist.


malignancy, tobacco smoking


Abrocitinib may increase the risk for a new primary malignancy. Lymphomas and solid cancers, including non-melanoma skin cancer (NMSC), have been observed in clinical safety studies in adult patients treated with tofacitinib, another JAK inhibitor, with one or more cardiovascular risk factors. Patients with a history of current or past tobacco smoking were at increased risk of lung cancer and overall cancers. Consider the benefits and risks for the individual patient before initiation or continuation of therapy, particularly in those with risk factors such as smoking, those who develop malignancy while on treatment, and those with a known malignancy, other than successfully treated NMSC. Reserve abrocitinib for patients who have an inadequate response or intolerance to one or more TNF inhibitors. Periodic skin examination is recommended for patients who are at increased risk for skin cancer. Instruct patients to limit sunlight (UV) exposure by wearing protective clothing and using broad-spectrum sunscreen.


cardiovascular disease, mortality, serious cardiovascular events, thromboembolism, thrombophilia


Avoid abrocitinib treatment in patients who may be at increased risk of thrombosis (thrombophilia) and thromboembolism, including those with thromboembolic disease. An increased risk of all-cause mortality [including sudden cardiovascular death (CV)], major adverse CV events (MACE; defined as CV death, non-fatal myocardial infarction (MI), and non-fatal stroke), and thrombosis (including deep venous thrombosis (DVT), pulmonary embolism (PE), and arterial thrombosis) has been observed in clinical safety studies in adult patients treated with tofacitinib, another Janus kinase (JAK) inhibitor, with one or more CV risk factors. Many of the observed thrombotic events were serious and some resulted in death. Consider the benefits and risks for the individual patient prior to initiating or continuing therapy with abrocitinib, particularly in patients who are current or past smokers and patients with cardiovascular disease or other cardiovascular risk factors. Patients should be informed about the symptoms of serious cardiovascular events and the steps to take if they occur. Discontinue abrocitinib in patients that have experienced a myocardial infarction or stroke. Reserve abrocitinib for patients who have an inadequate response or intolerance to one or more TNF inhibitors. Advise patients of the potential increased risk for MACE and to seek emergency medical attention if they experience signs and symptoms of a heart attack, stroke, or blood clot. Discontinue the drug if a patient develops a thromboembolic event.


renal failure, renal impairment


Abrocitinib is not recommended for use in patients with severe renal impairment (CrCl 15 to 29 mL/minute) or end-stage renal disease/renal failure (CrCl less than 15 mL/minute), including patients receiving renal replacement therapy. Patients with moderate renal impairment (CrCl 30 to 59 mL/minute) should receive a reduced dose of abrocitinib.


CYP2C19 poor metabolizer


Use abrocitinib with caution in patients who are known or suspected to be a CYP2C19 poor metabolizer based on genotype or previous history with other CYP2C19 substrates (e.g., clopidogrel). Following administration of a single abrocitinib dose, the dose-normalized AUC values were 2.3-fold higher in CYP2C19 poor metabolizers compared to CYP2C19 normal metabolizers. A dose reduction is required for patients who are known or suspected CYP2C19 poor metabolizers.


pregnancy


Data regarding the use of abrocitinib during human pregnancy are insufficient to inform a drug-associated risk for major birth defects, miscarriages, or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. In animal studies, administration of abrocitinib to pregnant rats and rabbits during organogenesis at exposures 11- or 4-times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD), respectively, resulted in maternal dystocia and skeletal variations in rats; no adverse effects were observed in rabbits. Report exposures during pregnancy to the manufacturer's Pregnancy Exposure Registry at 1-877-311-3770; more information is available at www.cibinqopregnancyregistry.com.


people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk


Counsel people who may become pregnant about the reproductive risk associated with abrocitinib. Based on animal data, abrocitinib may cause female infertility. Impaired fertility in female rats was reversible 1 month after discontinuation of abrocitinib.


diabetes mellitus


Use abrocitinib with caution in people with diabetes mellitus. Hypoglycemia, including severe hypoglycemia, has been reported in individuals with diabetes mellitus who started abrocitinib and other JAK inhibitors. During treatment with abrocitinib, consider increased blood glucose monitoring as clinically indicated in individuals with diabetes. Advise individuals to notify their health care provider if they develop signs or symptoms of hypoglycemia.


breast-feeding


Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking abrocitinib and for 1 day after the last dose (approximately 5 to 6 half-lives). There are no data on the presence of abrocitinib in human milk, the effects on the breast-fed child, or the effects of milk production. It was secreted in the milk of lactating rats. Due to the potential for serious adverse effects in the breast-fed child, breast-feeding during abrocitinib therapy is not recommended.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Data regarding the use of abrocitinib during human pregnancy are insufficient to inform a drug-associated risk for major birth defects, miscarriages, or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. In animal studies, administration of abrocitinib to pregnant rats and rabbits during organogenesis at exposures 11- or 4-times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD), respectively, resulted in maternal dystocia and skeletal variations in rats; no adverse effects were observed in rabbits. Report exposures during pregnancy to the manufacturer's Pregnancy Exposure Registry at 1-877-311-3770; more information is available at www.cibinqopregnancyregistry.com.


Interactions

Abacavir; Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with abrocitinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp substrate and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use with daily aspirin doses higher than 81 mg is contraindicated during the first 3 months of abrocitinib therapy due to an increased risk of bleeding with thrombocytopenia.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use with daily aspirin doses higher than 81 mg is contraindicated during the first 3 months of abrocitinib therapy due to an increased risk of bleeding with thrombocytopenia.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use with daily aspirin doses higher than 81 mg is contraindicated during the first 3 months of abrocitinib therapy due to an increased risk of bleeding with thrombocytopenia.
Afatinib: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of abrocitinib and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of abrocitinib. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with abrocitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a P-gp substrate; abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Anagrelide: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use with anagrelide is contraindicated during the first 3 months of abrocitinib therapy due to an increased risk of bleeding with thrombocytopenia.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of abrocitinib with apalutamide as the combined exposure of abrocitinib and its 2 active metabolites may be decreased, resulting in reduced therapeutic effect. Abrocitinib is a CYP2C19 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP2C19 inducer.
Aspirin, ASA: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use with daily aspirin doses higher than 81 mg is contraindicated during the first 3 months of abrocitinib therapy due to an increased risk of bleeding with thrombocytopenia.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use with daily aspirin doses higher than 81 mg is contraindicated during the first 3 months of abrocitinib therapy due to an increased risk of bleeding with thrombocytopenia.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use with daily aspirin doses higher than 81 mg is contraindicated during the first 3 months of abrocitinib therapy due to an increased risk of bleeding with thrombocytopenia.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use with daily aspirin doses higher than 81 mg is contraindicated during the first 3 months of abrocitinib therapy due to an increased risk of bleeding with thrombocytopenia.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use with daily aspirin doses higher than 81 mg is contraindicated during the first 3 months of abrocitinib therapy due to an increased risk of bleeding with thrombocytopenia.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use with daily aspirin doses higher than 81 mg is contraindicated during the first 3 months of abrocitinib therapy due to an increased risk of bleeding with thrombocytopenia.
Aspirin, ASA; Dipyridamole: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use with daily aspirin doses higher than 81 mg is contraindicated during the first 3 months of abrocitinib therapy due to an increased risk of bleeding with thrombocytopenia. (Contraindicated) Concurrent use with dipyridamole is contraindicated during the first 3 months of abrocitinib therapy due to an increased risk of bleeding with thrombocytopenia.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use with daily aspirin doses higher than 81 mg is contraindicated during the first 3 months of abrocitinib therapy due to an increased risk of bleeding with thrombocytopenia.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use with daily aspirin doses higher than 81 mg is contraindicated during the first 3 months of abrocitinib therapy due to an increased risk of bleeding with thrombocytopenia.
Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with abrocitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a P-gp substrate; abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Bacillus Calmette-Guerin Vaccine, BCG: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least four weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least three months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Bictegravir; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with abrocitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use with daily aspirin doses higher than 81 mg is contraindicated during the first 3 months of abrocitinib therapy due to an increased risk of bleeding with thrombocytopenia.
Cangrelor: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use with cangrelor is contraindicated during the first 3 months of abrocitinib therapy due to an increased risk of bleeding with thrombocytopenia.
Chikungunya Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least four weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least three months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Cholera Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the live cholera vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to cholera bacteria after receiving the vaccine.
Cilostazol: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use with cilostazol is contraindicated during the first 3 months of abrocitinib therapy due to an increased risk of bleeding with thrombocytopenia.
Clopidogrel: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use with clopidogrel is contraindicated during the first 3 months of abrocitinib therapy due to an increased risk of bleeding with thrombocytopenia.
Cobimetinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in cobimetinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with abrocitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase cobimetinib exposure. In vitro, cobimetinib is a P-glycoprotein substrate; abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Colchicine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of colchicine and abrocitinib due to the risk for increased colchicine exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Additionally, this combination is contraindicated if colchicine is being used for cardiovascular risk reduction. If concomitant use is necessary outside of these scenarios, consider a colchicine dosage reduction. Specific dosage reduction recommendations are available for colchicine tablets for some indications; it is unclear if these dosage recommendations are appropriate for other products or indications. For colchicine tablets being used for gout prophylaxis, reduce the dose from 0.6 mg twice daily to 0.3 mg once daily or from 0.6 mg once daily to 0.3 mg once every other day. For colchicine tablets being used for gout treatment, reduce the dose from 1.2 mg followed by 0.6 mg to 0.6 mg without an additional dose. For colchicine tablets being used for Familial Mediterranean Fever, the maximum daily dose is 0.6 mg. Colchicine is a P-gp substrate and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Closely monitor cyclosporine whole blood trough concentrations as appropriate and watch for cyclosporine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with abrocitinib is necessary. The dose of cyclosporine may need to be adjusted. Concurrent use may increase cyclosporine exposure causing an increased risk for cyclosporine-related adverse events. Cyclosporine is a P-gp substrate and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Dabigatran: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dabigatran-related adverse reactions if coadministration with abrocitinib is necessary in patients with creatinine clearance (CrCl) greater than 50 mL/minute. Avoid coadministration in patients with CrCl less than 50 mL/minute when dabigatran is administered for treatment or reduction in risk of recurrence of deep venous thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism (PE) or prophylaxis of DVT or PE following hip replacement surgery. Avoid coadministration in patients with CrCl less than 30 mL/minute in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation. Serum concentrations of dabigatran are expected to be higher in patients with renal impairment compared to patients with normal renal function. Dabigatran is a P-gp substrate and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Daraxonrasib: (Major) Reduce the daraxonrasib dosage to 150 mg once daily if concomitant use with abrocitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase daraxonrasib exposure and the risk for daraxonrasib-related adverse effects. Daraxonrasib is a P-gp substrate and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor was observed to increase daraxonrasib overall exposure by 1.8-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with abrocitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Dengue Tetravalent Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of the live dengue virus vaccine with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Digoxin: (Moderate) Increase monitoring of serum digoxin concentrations and watch for potential signs and symptoms of clinical toxicity when starting, adjusting, or discontinuing abrocitinib. Concurrent use may increase digoxin exposure. Digoxin is a P-gp substrate with a narrow therapeutic index and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Dipyridamole: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use with dipyridamole is contraindicated during the first 3 months of abrocitinib therapy due to an increased risk of bleeding with thrombocytopenia.
Dolutegravir: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with abrocitinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp substrate and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with abrocitinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp substrate and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with abrocitinib. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp substrate and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with abrocitinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
DOXOrubicin Liposomal: (Major) Avoid coadministration of abrocitinib with doxorubicin due to the risk for increased systemic exposure of doxorubicin resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions. Doxorubicin is a P-gp substrate and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Concurrent use of P-gp inhibitors with doxorubicin has resulted in clinically significant interactions.
DOXOrubicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of abrocitinib with doxorubicin due to the risk for increased systemic exposure of doxorubicin resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions. Doxorubicin is a P-gp substrate and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Concurrent use of P-gp inhibitors with doxorubicin has resulted in clinically significant interactions.
Ebola Zaire Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least four weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least three months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Edoxaban: (Major) Consider an edoxaban dosage reduction for patients being treated for deep venous thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism (PE) if concomitant use of abrocitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase edoxaban exposure; edoxaban is a P-gp substrate and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor. An edoxaban dose reduction to 30 mg PO once daily is recommended by the manufacturer for use with certain P-gp inhibitors; however, because use of concomitant P-gp inhibitors was limited to only certain drugs that inhibit P-gp in DVT/PE clinical trials, clinicians should use professional judgment and guide edoxaban dose adjustments based on patient response if coadministered with abrocitinib. Based on clinical experience in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation no dose reduction is recommended for concomitant use of abrocitinib. Increased concentrations of edoxaban may occur during concomitant use of abrocitinib; monitor for increased adverse effects of edoxaban.
Efavirenz: (Major) Avoid coadministration of abrocitinib with efavirenz as the combined exposure of abrocitinib and its 2 active metabolites may be increased, which may increase the risk for adverse reactions. Abrocitinib is a substrate of CYP2C19 and CYP2C9; efavirenz is a moderate CYP2C19 and CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of abrocitinib with efavirenz as the combined exposure of abrocitinib and its 2 active metabolites may be increased, which may increase the risk for adverse reactions. Abrocitinib is a substrate of CYP2C19 and CYP2C9; efavirenz is a moderate CYP2C19 and CYP2C9 inhibitor. (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with abrocitinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of abrocitinib with efavirenz as the combined exposure of abrocitinib and its 2 active metabolites may be increased, which may increase the risk for adverse reactions. Abrocitinib is a substrate of CYP2C19 and CYP2C9; efavirenz is a moderate CYP2C19 and CYP2C9 inhibitor. (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with abrocitinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with abrocitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with abrocitinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with abrocitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with abrocitinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with abrocitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with abrocitinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ensartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with abrocitinib due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Eptifibatide: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use with platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors is contraindicated during the first 3 months of abrocitinib therapy due to an increased risk of bleeding with thrombocytopenia.
Everolimus: (Moderate) Monitor everolimus whole blood trough concentrations as appropriate and watch for everolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with abrocitinib is necessary. The dose of everolimus may need to be reduced. Everolimus is a P-gp substrate and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with P-gp inhibitors may decrease the efflux of everolimus from intestinal cells and increase everolimus blood concentrations.
Ezetimibe; Simvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in simvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with abrocitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase simvastatin exposure. Simvastatin is a P-gp substrate; abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Fluconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of abrocitinib with fluconazole as the combined exposure of abrocitinib and its 2 active metabolites may be increased, which may increase the risk for adverse reactions. When administered concurrently with fluconazole, the systemic exposure of abrocitinib was increased by approximately 4.8-fold, and the combined exposure of abrocitinib and its active metabolites was increased by 2.5-fold. Abrocitinib is a substrate of CYP2C9 and CYP2C19; fluconazole is a moderate CYP2C9 and strong CYP2C19 inducer.
FLUoxetine: (Major) Do not exceed an initial abrocitinib dose of 50 mg PO once daily or a maximum dose of 100 mg PO once daily if coadministered with fluoxetine. Concurrent use may increase the combined exposure of abrocitinib and its 2 active metabolites; monitor closely for adverse reactions. Abrocitinib is a CYP2C19 substrate and fluoxetine is a strong CYP2C19 inhibitor.
fluvoxaMINE: (Major) Do not exceed an initial abrocitinib dose of 50 mg PO once daily or a maximum dose of 100 mg PO once daily if coadministered with fluvoxamine. Concurrent use may increase the combined exposure of abrocitinib and its 2 active metabolites; monitor closely for adverse reactions. Abrocitinib is a CYP2C19 substrate and fluvoxamine is a strong CYP2C19 inhibitor.
Glecaprevir; Pibrentasvir: (Moderate) Caution is advised with coadministration of glecaprevir and abrocitinib as increased plasma concentrations of glecaprevir may occur resulting in increased risk of glecaprevir-related adverse events. Glecaprevir is a substrate of P-gp and BCRP and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in pibrentasvir-related adverse effects if concomitant use of abrocitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase pibrentasvir exposure. Pibrentasvir is a substrate of P-gp and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Intranasal Influenza Vaccine: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least four weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least three months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with abrocitinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Lapatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in lapatinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with abrocitinib is necessary. Lapatinib is a P-gp substrate and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Increased plasma concentrations of lapatinib are likely.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of abrocitinib with oral lefamulin unless the benefits outweigh the risks as concurrent use may increase lefamulin exposure and adverse effects; abrocitinib may be administered with intravenous lefamulin. Lefamulin is a P-gp substrate and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Live Vaccines: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least four weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least three months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Loperamide: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with abrocitinib. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with abrocitinib. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Lovastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in lovastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with abrocitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase lovastatin exposure. Lovastatin is a P-gp substrate; abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Maraviroc: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in maraviroc-related adverse reactions if coadministration with abrocitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase maraviroc exposure. Maraviroc is a P-gp substrate; abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Mavorixafor: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with abrocitinib. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Measles Virus; Mumps Virus; Rubella Virus; Varicella Virus Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least four weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least three months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Measles/Mumps/Rubella Vaccines, MMR: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least four weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least three months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Mefloquine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mefloquine-related adverse effects if concomitant use of abrocitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase mefloquine exposure. Mefloquine is a P-gp substrate and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Morphine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in morphine-related adverse reactions, including hypotension, sedation, and respiratory depression, if coadministration with abrocitinib is necessary; decrease the dose of morphine as necessary. Morphine is a P-gp substrate and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with P-gp inhibitors can increase morphine exposure by about 2-fold.
Naldemedine: (Moderate) Monitor for naldemedine-related adverse reactions if coadministered with abrocitinib. Naldemedine plasma concentrations may increase during concomitant use. Naldemedine is a P-gp substrate; abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound Sirolimus: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sirolimus and abrocitinib. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and increase the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a P-gp substrate and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Major) Do not exceed an initial abrocitinib dose of 50 mg PO once daily or a maximum dose of 100 mg PO once daily if coadministered with fluoxetine. Concurrent use may increase the combined exposure of abrocitinib and its 2 active metabolites; monitor closely for adverse reactions. Abrocitinib is a CYP2C19 substrate and fluoxetine is a strong CYP2C19 inhibitor.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pazopanib and abrocitinib due to the potential for increased pazopanib exposure. Pazopanib is a P-gp substrate; abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Consider selection of an alternative concomitant medication with no or minimal potential to inhibit P-gp.
Pentoxifylline: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use with pentoxifylline is contraindicated during the first 3 months of abrocitinib therapy due to an increased risk of bleeding with thrombocytopenia.
Pitavastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in pitavastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with abrocitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase pitavastatin exposure. Pitavastatin is a P-gp substrate; abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Platelet Glycoprotein IIb/IIIa Inhibitors: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use with platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors is contraindicated during the first 3 months of abrocitinib therapy due to an increased risk of bleeding with thrombocytopenia.
Posaconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in posaconazole-related adverse reactions if coadministration with abrocitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase posaconazole exposure. Posaconazole is a P-gp substrate; abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Pralsetinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of abrocitinib with pralsetinib due to the risk of increased pralsetinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the daily dose of pralsetinib by 100 mg. Pralsetinib is a P-gp substrate and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased the overall exposure of pralsetinib by 81%.
Prasugrel: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use with prasugrel is contraindicated during the first 3 months of abrocitinib therapy due to an increased risk of bleeding with thrombocytopenia.
Probenecid; Colchicine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of colchicine and abrocitinib due to the risk for increased colchicine exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Additionally, this combination is contraindicated if colchicine is being used for cardiovascular risk reduction. If concomitant use is necessary outside of these scenarios, consider a colchicine dosage reduction. Specific dosage reduction recommendations are available for colchicine tablets for some indications; it is unclear if these dosage recommendations are appropriate for other products or indications. For colchicine tablets being used for gout prophylaxis, reduce the dose from 0.6 mg twice daily to 0.3 mg once daily or from 0.6 mg once daily to 0.3 mg once every other day. For colchicine tablets being used for gout treatment, reduce the dose from 1.2 mg followed by 0.6 mg to 0.6 mg without an additional dose. For colchicine tablets being used for Familial Mediterranean Fever, the maximum daily dose is 0.6 mg. Colchicine is a P-gp substrate and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ranolazine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in ranolazine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with abrocitinib is necessary and consider a ranolazine dosage adjustment. Concomitant use may increase ranolazine exposure. Ranolazine is a P-gp substrate; abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Relugolix: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of relugolix and oral abrocitinib. Concomitant use may increase relugolix exposure and the risk of relugolix-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, administer abrocitinib at least six hours after relugolix and monitor for adverse reactions. Relugolix is a P-gp substrate and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of relugolix and oral abrocitinib. Concomitant use may increase relugolix exposure and the risk of relugolix-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, administer abrocitinib at least six hours after relugolix and monitor for adverse reactions. Relugolix is a P-gp substrate and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with abrocitinib due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of abrocitinib with rifampin as the combined exposure of abrocitinib and its 2 active metabolites may be decreased, resulting in reduced therapeutic effect. Abrocitinib is a CYP2C9 substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP2C9 inducer.
rifAXIMin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rifaximin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with abrocitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase rifaximin exposure. In patients with hepatic impairment, a potential additive effect of reduced metabolism may further increase systemic rifaximin exposure. Rifaximin is a P-gp substrate and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased rifaximin overall exposure by 124-fold.
Rimegepant: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with abrocitinib; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Rotavirus Vaccine: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least four weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least three months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Saquinavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in saquinavir-related adverse reactions if coadministration with abrocitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase saquinavir exposure. Saquinavir is a P-gp substrate; abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) vaccines: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) mRNA Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) Recombinant Spike Protein Nanoparticle Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
Silodosin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of silodosin and abrocitinib due to the potential for increased silodosin exposure. In vitro data indicate that silodosin is a P-glycoprotein substrate; abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Simvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in simvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with abrocitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase simvastatin exposure. Simvastatin is a P-gp substrate; abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Sirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor sirolimus concentrations and adjust sirolimus dosage as appropriate during concomitant use of abrocitinib. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a P-gp substrate and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Smallpox and Monkeypox Vaccine, Live, Nonreplicating: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least four weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least three months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Smallpox and Mpox (Vaccinia) Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least four weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least three months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Talazoparib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in talazoparib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with abrocitinib is necessary. Talazoparib is a P-gp substrate and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Temsirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with abrocitinib is necessary due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-gp substrate and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration is likely to increase plasma concentrations of temsirolimus.
Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with abrocitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with abrocitinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ticagrelor: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use with ticagrelor is contraindicated during the first 3 months of abrocitinib therapy due to an increased risk of bleeding with thrombocytopenia. After 3 months of abrocitinib therapy, monitor for increased bleeding if coadministered with ticagrelor as concurrent use may also increase the exposure of ticagrelor. Ticagrelor is a P-gp substrate and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Tipranavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tipranavir-related adverse reactions if coadministration with abrocitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tipranavir exposure. Tipranavir is a P-gp substrate; abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Tirofiban: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use with platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors is contraindicated during the first 3 months of abrocitinib therapy due to an increased risk of bleeding with thrombocytopenia.
Topotecan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of abrocitinib with oral topotecan due to increased topotecan exposure; abrocitinib may be administered with intravenous topotecan. Oral topotecan is a substrate of the P-gp and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration increases the risk of topotecan-related adverse reactions. Oral administration within 4 hours of another P-gp inhibitor increased the dose-normalized AUC of topotecan lactone and total topotecan 2-fold to 3-fold compared to oral topotecan alone.
Typhoid Vaccine: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least four weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least three months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Ubrogepant: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with abrocitinib. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a substrate of the P-gp drug transporter; abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Varicella Virus Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least four weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least three months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Venetoclax: (Major) Reduce the dose of venetoclax by at least 50% and monitor for venetoclax toxicity (e.g., hematologic toxicity, GI toxicity, and tumor lysis syndrome) if coadministered with abrocitinib due to the potential for increased venetoclax exposure. Resume the original venetoclax dose 2 to 3 days after discontinuation of abrocitinib. Venetoclax is a P-gp substrate; abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with a single dose of another P-gp inhibitor increased venetoclax exposure by 78% in a drug interaction study.
vinCRIStine Liposomal: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of abrocitinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
vinCRIStine: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of abrocitinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Vorapaxar: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use with vorapaxar is contraindicated during the first 3 months of abrocitinib therapy due to an increased risk of bleeding with thrombocytopenia.
Yellow Fever Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least four weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least three months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.


Adverse Reaction
infection, influenza, pharyngitis


Overall, infection was reported in 427 patients (91.8 per 100 patient-years) treated with 100 mg abrocitinib and 394 patients (103.2 per 100 patient-years) treated with the 200 mg dose during clinical trials. Serious infections were reported in 18 patients (2.3 per 100 patient-years) treated with 100 mg abrocitinib and 16 patients (2.3 per 100 patient-years) treated with the 200 mg dose. The most commonly reported serious infections associated with abrocitinib treatment were pneumonia, herpes zoster (0.3% to 1%), and herpes simplex (3% to 4%). The herpes simplex infections included oral and ophthalmic herpes, herpes dermatitis, and genital herpes. For herpes zoster, cases included multidermatomal cutaneous herpes zoster. In all clinical trials (including the long-term extension trial), herpes zoster infections were reported in 16 patients (2 per 100 patient-years) treated with 100 mg abrocitinib and 35 patients (5.2 per 100 patient-years) treated with the 200 mg dose. Other infections reported during clinical trials included naso-pharyngitis (9% to 12%), urinary tract infections (2%), impetigo (0.5% to 1.5%), and influenza (1%).


pulmonary embolism, thrombosis


Deep venous thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE) were observed in patients receiving abrocitinib during clinical trials. In all clinical trials (including the long-term extension trial), PE was reported in 3 patients (0.4 per 100 patient-years) treated with 200 mg abrocitinib and DVT was reported in 2 patients (0.3 per 100 patient-years) treated with the 200 mg dose. No thrombosis occurred in patients treated with 100 mg abrocitinib.


hypertension, myocardial infarction, stroke


Major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) were reported during clinical trials of abrocitinib. These adverse events were defined as cardiovascular death, non-fatal myocardial infarction (MI), and non-fatal stroke. In all clinical trials (including the long-term extension trial), MACE was reported in 1 patient (0.1 per 100 patient-years) treated with 100 mg abrocitinib and 2 patients (0.3 per 100 patient-years) treated with the 200 mg dose. Additionally, 0.8% to 1.2% of abrocitinib recipients reported hypertension.


thrombocytopenia


Treatment with abrocitinib was associated with a dose-related decrease in platelet counts in clinical trials. Maximum effects on platelets were observed within 4 weeks, after which the platelet counts returned towards baseline despite continued therapy. In all clinical trials (including the long-term extension trial), 6 patients (0.9 per 100 patient-years) treated with 200 mg abrocitinib developed thrombocytopenia. The overall incidence in patients treated with 200 mg abrocitinib was 1.5%. No patients who received 100 mg abrocitinib developed thrombocytopenia.


lymphopenia


Lymphopenia (ALC less than 500 cells/mm3) was reported in 2 patients (1.2 per 100 patient-years) treated with 200 mg abrocitinib in clinical trials. In both cases, the decrease in ALC occurred within the first 4 weeks of drug exposure. No cases of lymphopenia were identified in patients treated with 100 mg abrocitinib or in those receiving the placebo.


hyperlipidemia


During abrocitinib clinical trials, there was a dose-related percent increase in LDL cholesterol, total cholesterol, and HDL cholesterol relative to placebo at Week 4 which remained elevated through the final visit in the treatment period. Adverse reactions related to hyperlipidemia occurred in 1 patient (0.6 per 100 patient-years) treated with 100 mg abrocitinib and 3 patients (2 per 100 patient-years) treated with the 200 mg dose.


retinal detachment


Retinal detachment occurred in 2 patients (0.3 per 100 patient-years) treated with 100 mg abrocitinib in clinical trials.


abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting


Gastrointestinal adverse reactions, including nausea (6% to 15%), vomiting (2% to 3%), oropharyngeal pain (1%), gastroenteritis (1%), upper abdominal pain (1% to 2%), and abdominal discomfort (0.5% to 1%), were reported with abrocitinib in clinical trials.


dizziness, fatigue, headache


Neurologic adverse reactions, including headache (6% to 8%), dizziness (2% to 3%), and fatigue (1% to 2%), were reported with abrocitinib in clinical trials.


acne vulgaris, contact dermatitis


Dermatologic adverse reactions, including acne vulgaris (2% to 5%) and contact dermatitis (0.5% to 1%), were reported with abrocitinib in clinical trials.


elevated creatine kinase


Elevated creatine kinase was observed in 2% to 3% of abrocitinib recipients during clinical trials. Elevated creatine kinase was observed in 11 patients (6.9 per 100 patient-years) treated with 100 mg abrocitinib and 19 patients (12.3 per 100 patient-years) treated with 200 mg abrocitinib. Most elevations were transient, and there were no reports of rhabdomyolysis.


hypoglycemia


Hypoglycemia has been reported during postmarketing experience with abrocitinib. Hypoglycemia, including severe hypoglycemia, has been reported in individuals with diabetes mellitus who started abrocitinib or other JAK inhibitors. During treatment with abrocitinib, consider increased blood glucose monitoring as clinically indicated in individuals with diabetes. Advise individuals to notify their health care provider if they develop signs or symptoms of hypoglycemia.


infertility


Based on animal data, abrocitinib may cause female infertility. Impaired fertility in female rats was reversible 1 month after discontinuation of abrocitinib.


new primary malignancy, skin cancer


Abrocitinib may cause new primary malignancy; malignancies, including non-melanoma skin cancer (NMSC), were reported during clinical trials. In all clinical trials (including the long-term extension trial), malignancies were reported in 4 patients (0.5 per 100 patient-years) treated with 100 mg abrocitinib and 2 patients (0.3 per 100 patient-years) treated with the 200 mg dose.


Description

Abrocitinib is a Janus kinase (JAK) inhibitor, and is considered a targeted synthetic disease-modifying antirheumatic drug (tsDMARD). Janus kinases are intracellular enzymes that transmit signals arising from cytokine interactions on the cellular membrane to influence cellular processes of immune cell function. Abrocitinib is indicated for the treatment of refractory, moderate to severe atopic dermatitis in patients whose disease is not adequately controlled with other systemic medications, including biologics, or when use of those therapies is not advisable. Abrocitinib may be used with or without topical corticosteroids. The use of abrocitinib does present some safety concerns, as serious infections, blood clots, and malignancy may be precipitated by JAK inhibitors. The drug is not to be used in combination with other JAK inhibitors, biologic immunomodulators, or other immunosuppressants. Abrocitinib was FDA-approved in 2022.

Mechanism Of Action

Abrocitinib is a Janus kinase (JAK) inhibitor. Janus kinases are intracellular enzymes that transmit signals arising from cytokine interactions on the cellular membrane to influence cellular processes of immune cell function. JAK-mediated signaling is pivotal in immune activation, as cytokine receptors are expressed on most immune cells. JAKs are responsible for the intracellular signaling in type I and type II cytokine receptors located on over 50 cytokines, interleukins, interferons, colony-stimulating factors, and hormones. Upon ligand and receptor interaction, JAKs phosphorylate and activate signal transducers and activators of transcription proteins (STATs), which modulate intracellular activity including gene expression. Abrocitinib reversibly inhibits JAK1 by blocking the adenosine triphosphate (ATP) binding site. In a cell-free isolate enzyme assay, abrocitinib was selective for JAK1 over JAK2 (28-fold), JAK3 (more than 340-fold), and tyrosine kinase (TYK)2 (43-fold), as well as the broader kinome. The relevance of inhibiting specific JAK enzymes to therapeutic efficacy has not been established. Both the parent compound and the active metabolites inhibit JAK1 activity in vitro with similar levels of selectivity. Treatment with abrocitinib was associated with dose-dependent reduction in serum markers of inflammation, including high sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP), interleukin-31 (IL-31), and thymus and activation regulated chemokine (TARC). These changes returned to near baseline within 4 weeks of drug discontinuation.

Pharmacokinetics

Abrocitinib is administered orally. Once in systemic circulation, the drug has an approximate volume of distribution of 100 L. Approximately 64%, 37%, and 29% of circulating abrocitinib and its active metabolites M1 (3-hydroxypropyl) and M2 (2-hydroxypropyl), respectively, are bound to plasma proteins; binding occurs predominately to albumin and is distributed equally between red blood cells and plasma. The pharmacologic activity of abrocitinib is attributed to the unbound exposure of the parent molecule (60%) as well as M1 (10%) and M2 (30%) in circulation. The sum of unbound exposures of abrocitinib, M1, and M2 (each expressed in molar units and adjusted for relative potencies) is referred to as the combined exposure of abrocitinib and its 2 active metabolites. Abrocitinib is mediated by multiple CYP enzymes: CYP2C19 (53%), CYP2C9 (30%), CYP3A4 (11%), and CYP2B6 (6%). When hydroxylated to form active metabolites, M1 is less active than abrocitinib while M2 is as active as the parent drug. Primarily eliminated by metabolic clearance mechanisms, the mean elimination half-lives of abrocitinib, M1, and M2 ranges from 3 to 5 hours. Less than 1% of the dose is excreted in the urine as unchanged drug. The metabolites M1 and M2 are excreted predominately in urine, and are substrates of the OAT3 transporter.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP2C19, CYP2C9, CYP3A4, CYP2B6, P-gp, OAT3, OCT1
Abrocitinib is a substrate for CYP2C19, CYP2C9, CYP3A4, and CYP2B6. The metabolites M1 and M2 are substrates for OAT3. Abrocitinib is an inhibitor of P-gp and OCT1.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route

Abrocitinib has an absolute oral bioavailability of approximately 60%. Following oral administration, the Tmax is reached within 1 hour. Plasma Cmax and AUC increase proportionally with increases in dose up to 200 mg. Steady-state concentrations of abrocitinib are achieved within 48 hours after once daily dosing. Administration with a high-fat, high-caloric meal (916 total calories with 55% fat, 29% carbohydrates, and 16% protein) had no clinically relevant effect on abrocitinib exposure (AUC and Cmax of abrocitinib increased by 26% and 29%, respectively, and Tmax was prolonged by 2 hours).

Hepatic Impairment

Compared to patients with normal hepatic function, the combined AUC of abrocitinib and its active metabolites (M1 and M2) was reduced by 4% in patients with mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh A) and increased by 15% in patients with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B); these changes are not clinically significant. The pharmacokinetics of abrocitinib have not been evaluated in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh C) or active hepatitis B or C.

Renal Impairment

Compared to patients with normal renal function (eGFR less than or equal to 90 mL/minute or higher), the combined AUC of abrocitinib and its active metabolites (M1 and M2) was increased by 110% and 191% in patients with moderate renal impairment (eGFR 30 to 59 mL/minute) and severe renal impairment (eGFR less than 30 mL/minute), respectively. Based on these results, a clinically significant increase in the combined AUC of abrocitinib and the active metabolites is not expected in patients with mild renal impairment (eGFR 60 to 89 mL/minute). The pharmacokinetics of abrocitinib have not been evaluated in patients on renal replacement therapy.

Geriatric

Age does not have a clinically meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of abrocitinib.

Gender Differences

Gender does not have a clinically meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of abrocitinib.

Ethnic Differences

Ethnicity does not have a clinically meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of abrocitinib.

Obesity

Body weight does not have a clinically meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of abrocitinib.

Other

CYP2C19 Poor Metabolizers
Following a single dose of abrocitinib, the AUC of abrocitinib was 2.3-fold higher in CYP2C19 poor metabolizers as compared to CYP2C19 normal metabolizers. CYP2C19 poor metabolizers have little to no CYP2C19 enzyme function and are found in approximately 3% to 5% of White and Black patients and 15% to 20% of Asian patients.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Oral Administration
Oral Solid Formulations


Administer with or without food at approximately the same time each day.
Swallow the tablets whole with water. Do not split, crush or chew.
If a dose is missed, administer the dose as soon as possible. If it is less than 12 hours before the next dose, skip the missed dose. Thereafter, resume dosing at the regular scheduled time.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

200 mg/day PO; 100 mg/day PO for CYP2C19 poor metabolizers.

Geriatric

200 mg/day PO; 100 mg/day PO for CYP2C19 poor metabolizers.

Adolescents

200 mg/day PO; 100 mg/day PO for CYP2C19 poor metabolizers.

Children

12 years: 200 mg/day PO; 100 mg/day PO for CYP2C19 poor metabolizers.
1 to 11 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

CIBINQO 100mg Tablet

CIBINQO 200mg Tablet

CIBINQO 50mg Tablet

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Mild or moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh A or B): No dosage adjustment is needed.
Severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh C): Use is not recommended.

Renal Impairment

CrCl 60 mL/minute or more: No dosage adjustment is needed.
CrCl 30 to 59 mL/minute: Initiate at 50 mg PO once daily. If adequate response is not achieved with initial dose, may increase to 100 mg PO once daily.
CrCl less than 30 mL/minute: Use is not recommended.
 
Continuous renal replacement therapy
Use is not recommended.

© 2026 Elsevier