=== Axicabtagene Ciloleucel — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 4979)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Axicabtagene ciloleucel is a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell gene therapy.

Routes: injection (IV/IM/SC); Common adult doses: 2 X 106 CAR-positive viable T-cells per kg of body weight (maximum dose of 2 X 108 CAR-positive viable T-cells) as a single IV dose.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): cardiac arrest, heart failure, hypertension, hypotension, orthostatic hypotension, sinus tachycardia, colitis, hepatitis b exacerbation, hypogammaglobulinemia, infection, progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, anxiety, delirium, depression, hallucinations, hyperactivity, insomnia, irritability, mania, restlessness, cough, dyspnea, hypoxia, nasal congestion, pleural effusion, pulmonary edema, respiratory arrest, pulmonary embolism, thromboembolism, thrombosis

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, may occur due to dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) or residual gentamicin in axicabtagene ciloleucel. Emetic risk: Low

AXICABTAGENE CILOLEUCEL

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

YESCARTA

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL)

For the treatment of relapsed or refractory large B-cell lymphoma (e.g., diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) not otherwise specified, primary mediastinal large B-cell lymphoma, high-grade B-cell lymphoma, and DLBCL arising from follicular lymphoma) following 2 or more lines of systemic therapy
Intravenous dosage
Adults


2 x 10^6 CAR-positive viable T-cells per kg of body weight (maximum dose of 2 x 10^8 CAR-positive viable T-cells) as a single IV dose. administer recommended premedication. Additionally, confirm that 2 doses of tocilizumab are available for each patient prior to the infusion. The primary endpoint of investigator-assessed objective response rate was 83% in 101 evaluable patients with relapsed or refractory DLBCL (n = 77), primary mediastinal large B-cell lymphoma (n = 8), or transformed follicular lymphoma (n = 16) who received a single infusion of axicabtagene ciloleucel in a multicenter, phase 2 trial (ZUMA-1). The complete response rate was 58% and the median duration of response was 11.1 months. At a median follow-up time of 63.1 (range, 58.9 to 68.4) months, the median progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) times were 5.9 months and 25.8 months, respectively. The estimated 5-year PFS and OS rates were 31.8% and 42.6%, respectively. Following leukapheresis and T-cell collection, all patients had lymphocyte depletion with fludarabine (30 mg/m2 IV daily for 3 doses) and cyclophosphamide (500 mg/m2 IV daily for 3 doses); each was given on the fifth, fourth, and third day prior to the axicabtagene ciloleucel infusion. Bridging chemotherapy between leukapheresis and lymphodepleting chemotherapy was not permitted. In this study, 85% of patients had stage III or IV disease, 77% of patients had disease resistant to second-line or later therapies, and 69% of patients had received at least 3 prior therapies.


For the treatment of relapsed or refractory follicular lymphoma following 2 or more lines of systemic therapy
Intravenous dosage
Adults


2 x 10^6 CAR-positive viable T-cells per kg of body weight (maximum dose of 2 x 10^8 CAR-positive viable T-cells) as a single IV dose. Administer recommended premedication. Additionally, confirm that 2 doses of tocilizumab are available for each patient prior to the infusion. The investigator-assessed overall response rate was 94% (complete response rate, 79%) in patients with relapsed or refractory follicular lymphoma (n = 127) who received a single infusion of axicabtagene ciloleucel in a multicenter, phase 2 (ZUMA-5) trial. At a median follow-up time of 41.7 months, the median progression-free survival time was 40.2 months and the median overall survival time had not been reached. Following leukapheresis and T-cell collection, all patients had lymphocyte depletion with fludarabine (30 mg/m2 IV daily for 3 doses) and cyclophosphamide (500 mg/m2 IV daily for 3 doses); each was given on the fifth, fourth, and third day prior to the axicabtagene ciloleucel infusion. Bridging chemotherapy between leukapheresis and lymphodepleting chemotherapy was given in 4 patients. In this study, patients had received a median of 3 prior therapies (range, 1 to 10 therapies).


For the treatment of relapsed or refractory large B-cell lymphoma that is refractory to first-line chemoimmunotherapy or that relapses within 12 months of first-line chemoimmunotherapy
Intravenous dosage
Adults


2 x 10^6 CAR-positive viable T-cells per kg of body weight (maximum dose of 2 x 10^8 CAR-positive viable T-cells) as a single IV dose. Administer recommended premedication. Additionally, confirm that 2 doses of tocilizumab are available for each patient prior to the infusion. The median event-free survival (primary endpoint; 8.3 months vs. 2 months) and progression-free survival (14.7 months vs. 3.7 months) times were significantly improved in transplant-eligible patients with relapsed or refractory LBCL who received second-line therapy with axicabtagene ciloleucel compared with 2 or 3 cycles of investigator-selected standard care in a randomized, phase 3 (ZUMA-7) trial (n = 359; median follow-up time, 24.9 months). At a median follow-up of 47.2 (range, 39.8 to 60) months, the median overall survival time was not reached in the axicabtagene ciloleucel arm and 31.1 months in the standard care arm. Of note, 102 patients (57%) who had disease progression or lack of response in the standard care group received subsequent cellular immunotherapy outside the protocol; 79 out of 102 of these patients (77.5%) received subsequent axicabtagene ciloleucel. Following leukapheresis and T-cell collection, patients who received axicabtagene ciloleucel had lymphocyte depletion with fludarabine (30 mg/m2 IV daily for 3 doses) and cyclophosphamide (500 mg/m2 IV daily for 3 doses); each was given on the fifth, fourth, and third day prior to the axicabtagene ciloleucel infusion. Optional bridging chemotherapy between leukapheresis and lymphodepleting chemotherapy was limited to glucocorticoids only. In this trial, patients had LBCL that was refractory to or had relapsed no more than 12 months after first-line chemoimmunotherapy (including an anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody and anthracycline-containing regimen). Investigator-selected standard care consisted of protocol-defined, platinum-based, chemoimmunotherapy.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, may occur due to dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) or residual gentamicin in axicabtagene ciloleucel.

General Information

Vaccination with live viral vaccines during or following treatment with axicabtagene ciloleucel has not been studied. Live virus vaccination is not recommended for at least 6 weeks prior to the start of lymphodepleting chemotherapy, during axicabtagene ciloleucel therapy, and until immune recovery after axicabtagene ciloleucel therapy.

cytokine release syndrome


Cytokine release syndrome (CRS) is a potentially fatal reaction that has been reported with axicabtagene ciloleucel therapy. Do not administer axicabtagene ciloleucel in patients with active infection or inflammatory disorder. The use of prophylactic corticosteroids may delay the onset and decrease the duration of CRS; however, more severe neurologic toxicities or prolongation of neurologic toxicities may occur. Therefore, consider the use of prophylactic corticosteroids only after a risk versus benefit assessment taking into account individual patient comorbidities. Promptly initiate treatment of CRS with supportive care, tocilizumab, or tocilizumab and corticosteroids as clinically indicted.


activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery, neurological disease, neurotoxicity


Use axicabtagene ciloleucel with caution in patients with a history of neurological disease (e.g., seizures, stroke, or memory loss). Severe neurotoxicity (e.g., immune effector cell-associated neurotoxicity syndrome [ICANS], encephalopathy, seizures, cerebral edema) has been reported with axicabtagene ciloleucel therapy; some cases were fatal or life-threatening. Patients with primary mediastinal large B-cell lymphoma (PMBCL) may be at an increased risk of developing cerebral edema; monitor these patients closely for signs and symptoms. Neurologic toxicity may occur concurrently with cytokine release syndrome (CRS) or after CRS resolves. Advise patients to avoid driving or operating machinery or performing activities requiring coordination and concentration for at least 2 weeks after the axicabtagene ciloleucel infusion due to the risk of neurologic events (e.g., mental status changes, seizures) and altered or decreased consciousness or coordination. Severe neurologic toxicities or prolongation of neurologic toxicities may occur with the use of prophylactic corticosteroids; therefore, consider the use of prophylactic corticosteroids only after a risk versus benefit assessment taking into account individual patient comorbidities. Administer supportive care and/or corticosteroids as indicated. Consider starting levetiracetam for seizure prophylaxis in patients who experience any grade neurotoxicity. Provide intensive care supportive therapy in patients who develop severe or life-threatening neurologic toxicities.


new primary hematologic malignancy


New primary hematologic malignancy has occurred following treatment with BCMA- and CD19-directed genetically modified autologous T cell immunotherapies, including axicabtagene ciloleucel. Mature T cell malignancies, including CAR-positive tumors, may present as soon as weeks following infusion, and may include fatal outcomes; life-long monitoring is recommended following axicabtagene ciloleucel therapy.


inflammatory disorder


Do not administer axicabtagene ciloleucel in patients with active infection or inflammatory disorder. Use axicabtagene ciloleucel with caution in patients with recent infection. Serious and fatal infections including bacterial infection, fungal infection, viral infection, and opportunistic infections have been reported with axicabtagene ciloleucel therapy. Administer prophylactic antimicrobials according to local guidelines. Viral reactivation resulting in human herpes virus-6 encephalitis, JC virus-related progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, and hepatitis B virus reactivation resulting in fulminant hepatitis, hepatic failure, and death have occurred with drugs directed against B cells, including axicabtagene ciloleucel.  Screen for viral infection prior to initiating treatment; consider prophylactic anti-infective management in accordance with clinical guidelines before collection of cells for manufacturing (leukapheresis).


blood, organ, tissue, or cell donor


Patients must avoid being a blood, organ, tissue, or cell donor during treatment with axicabtagene ciloleucel.


pregnancy


Axicabtagene ciloleucel is not recommended for individuals who are pregnant, and pregnancy after administration should be discussed with the treating physician. There are no available human or animal data on the use of axicabtagene ciloleucel during pregnancy. It is not known if axicabtagene ciloleucel has the potential to be transferred to the fetus. However, based on its mechanism of action, fetal toxicity, including B-cell lymphocytopenia, may occur if the transduced cells cross the placenta.


people who can cause pregnancy in others, people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk


Counsel people who may become pregnant and people who can cause pregnancy in others about the reproductive risk associated with axicabtagene ciloleucel. Based on its mechanism of action, axicabtagene ciloleucel has the potential to cause fetal harm. Verify pregnancy status prior to treatment. Follow contraceptive guidance specific to the agents used in patients who receive lymphodepleting chemotherapy. There is insufficient exposure data to provide a recommendation concerning the duration of contraception required after treatment with axicabtagene ciloleucel. There are no data on the effects of axicabtagene ciloleucel on fertility.


breast-feeding


Use axicabtagene ciloleucel with caution during breast-feeding. There is no information on the presence of axicabtagene ciloleucel in human milk, its effects on the breastfed child, or its effects on milk production. A risk to the breastfed child cannot be excluded. Consider the developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding along with the clinical need for axicabtagene ciloleucel and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from the medication or from the patient's underlying medical condition.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Axicabtagene ciloleucel is not recommended for individuals who are pregnant, and pregnancy after administration should be discussed with the treating physician. There are no available human or animal data on the use of axicabtagene ciloleucel during pregnancy. It is not known if axicabtagene ciloleucel has the potential to be transferred to the fetus. However, based on its mechanism of action, fetal toxicity, including B-cell lymphocytopenia, may occur if the transduced cells cross the placenta.


Interactions

Bacillus Calmette-Guerin Vaccine, BCG: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines in the six weeks prior to the start of lymphodepleting chemotherapy, during axicabtagene ciloleucel therapy, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with axicabtagene ciloleucel. Patients with altered immunocompetence, including those receiving or those that have recently received immunosuppressive drug therapy, may be at increased risk for an adverse reaction because of uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Chikungunya Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines in the six weeks prior to the start of lymphodepleting chemotherapy, during axicabtagene ciloleucel therapy, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with axicabtagene ciloleucel. Patients with altered immunocompetence, including those receiving or those that have recently received immunosuppressive drug therapy, may be at increased risk for an adverse reaction because of uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Cholera Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the live cholera vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to cholera bacteria after receiving the vaccine.
Dengue Tetravalent Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of the live dengue virus vaccine with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Ebola Zaire Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines in the six weeks prior to the start of lymphodepleting chemotherapy, during axicabtagene ciloleucel therapy, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with axicabtagene ciloleucel. Patients with altered immunocompetence, including those receiving or those that have recently received immunosuppressive drug therapy, may be at increased risk for an adverse reaction because of uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Intranasal Influenza Vaccine: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines in the six weeks prior to the start of lymphodepleting chemotherapy, during axicabtagene ciloleucel therapy, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with axicabtagene ciloleucel. Patients with altered immunocompetence, including those receiving or those that have recently received immunosuppressive drug therapy, may be at increased risk for an adverse reaction because of uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Live Vaccines: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines in the six weeks prior to the start of lymphodepleting chemotherapy, during axicabtagene ciloleucel therapy, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with axicabtagene ciloleucel. Patients with altered immunocompetence, including those receiving or those that have recently received immunosuppressive drug therapy, may be at increased risk for an adverse reaction because of uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Measles Virus; Mumps Virus; Rubella Virus; Varicella Virus Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines in the six weeks prior to the start of lymphodepleting chemotherapy, during axicabtagene ciloleucel therapy, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with axicabtagene ciloleucel. Patients with altered immunocompetence, including those receiving or those that have recently received immunosuppressive drug therapy, may be at increased risk for an adverse reaction because of uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Measles/Mumps/Rubella Vaccines, MMR: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines in the six weeks prior to the start of lymphodepleting chemotherapy, during axicabtagene ciloleucel therapy, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with axicabtagene ciloleucel. Patients with altered immunocompetence, including those receiving or those that have recently received immunosuppressive drug therapy, may be at increased risk for an adverse reaction because of uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Rotavirus Vaccine: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines in the six weeks prior to the start of lymphodepleting chemotherapy, during axicabtagene ciloleucel therapy, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with axicabtagene ciloleucel. Patients with altered immunocompetence, including those receiving or those that have recently received immunosuppressive drug therapy, may be at increased risk for an adverse reaction because of uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) vaccines: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) mRNA Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) Recombinant Spike Protein Nanoparticle Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
Smallpox and Monkeypox Vaccine, Live, Nonreplicating: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines in the six weeks prior to the start of lymphodepleting chemotherapy, during axicabtagene ciloleucel therapy, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with axicabtagene ciloleucel. Patients with altered immunocompetence, including those receiving or those that have recently received immunosuppressive drug therapy, may be at increased risk for an adverse reaction because of uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Smallpox and Mpox (Vaccinia) Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines in the six weeks prior to the start of lymphodepleting chemotherapy, during axicabtagene ciloleucel therapy, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with axicabtagene ciloleucel. Patients with altered immunocompetence, including those receiving or those that have recently received immunosuppressive drug therapy, may be at increased risk for an adverse reaction because of uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Typhoid Vaccine: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines in the six weeks prior to the start of lymphodepleting chemotherapy, during axicabtagene ciloleucel therapy, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with axicabtagene ciloleucel. Patients with altered immunocompetence, including those receiving or those that have recently received immunosuppressive drug therapy, may be at increased risk for an adverse reaction because of uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Varicella Virus Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines in the six weeks prior to the start of lymphodepleting chemotherapy, during axicabtagene ciloleucel therapy, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with axicabtagene ciloleucel. Patients with altered immunocompetence, including those receiving or those that have recently received immunosuppressive drug therapy, may be at increased risk for an adverse reaction because of uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Yellow Fever Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live virus vaccines in the six weeks prior to the start of lymphodepleting chemotherapy, during axicabtagene ciloleucel therapy, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with axicabtagene ciloleucel. Patients with altered immunocompetence, including those receiving or those that have recently received immunosuppressive drug therapy, may be at increased risk for an adverse reaction because of uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.


Adverse Reaction
cardiac arrest, heart failure, hypertension, hypotension, orthostatic hypotension, sinus tachycardia


Hypotension including orthostatic hypotension (47% to 57%; grade 3 or higher, 4% to 15%), tachycardia/sinus tachycardia (43% to 57%; grade 3 or higher, 1% to 2%), arrhythmia (14% to 23%; grade 3 or higher, 2% to 7%), hypertension (9% to 15%; grade 3 or higher, 6% or less), heart failure (1% to 6%), and cardiac arrest (4% or less) were reported in patients with relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin lymphoma (excluding CNS lymphoma) who received axicabtagene ciloleucel in clinical trials.


abdominal pain, anorexia, colitis, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, nausea, vomiting, xerostomia


Decreased appetite/anorexia (24% to 44%; grade 3 or higher, 2%), diarrhea including colitis and enteritis (29% to 42%; grade 3 or higher, 1% to 4%), nausea (34% to 40%; grade 3 or higher, 2% or less), vomiting (20% to 26%; grade 3 or higher, 1% or less), constipation (20% to 28%), abdominal pain including dyspepsia (14% to 20%; grade 3 or higher, 4% or less), and xerostomia (11% or less) were reported in patients with relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin lymphoma (excluding CNS lymphoma) who received axicabtagene ciloleucel in clinical trials.


hepatitis B exacerbation, hypogammaglobulinemia, infection, progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy


Hypogammaglobulinemia (14%; grade 3 or higher, 1% or less) and infection (45%; grade 3 or higher, 17%) including grade 3 or higher pathogen unspecified infection (12%), bacterial infection (5%), viral infection (3%), and fungal infection (1%) were reported in patients with relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin lymphoma (excluding CNS lymphoma) who received axicabtagene ciloleucel (n = 422) in clinical trials. Other infectious events that were reported with axicabtagene ciloleucel in clinical studies include pneumonia (13% or less) and sepsis (4% or less). Hepatitis B exacerbation/reactivation has also occurred. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of infection prior to and after the axicabtagene ciloleucel infusion; administer prophylactic antimicrobial therapy and other anti-infective therapy as medically indicated. Additionally, monitor immunoglobulin levels after axicabtagene ciloleucel therapy; manage immunoglobulin deficiency with infection precautions, prophylactic antibiotic therapy, and immunoglobulin replacement per standard guidelines. Disseminated fungal infections (e.g., candida sepsis and aspergillus) and viral reactivation (e.g., human herpes virus-6 (HHV-6) encephalitis and JC virus-related progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML)) have been reported in patients with immunosuppression. Consider a diagnosis or HHV-6 or PML in immunosuppressed patients with neurologic events; perform a diagnostic evaluation.


weight loss


Weight loss was reported in 16% of patients with relapsed or refractory aggressive B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma who received axicabtagene ciloleucel in a nonrandomized trial (n = 108).


dehydration


Dehydration was reported in 11% of patients with relapsed or refractory aggressive B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma who received axicabtagene ciloleucel in a nonrandomized trial (n = 108); grade 3 or higher dehydration occurred in 3% of patients.


anxiety, delirium, depression, hallucinations, hyperactivity, insomnia, irritability, mania, restlessness


Delirium (15%; grade 3 or higher, 4% to 6%) and insomnia (10%) were reported in patients with relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) who received axicabtagene ciloleucel (n = 422) in clinical trials (excluding CNS lymphoma). Anxiety was reported in 9% of patients with relapsed or refractory aggressive B-cell NHL who received axicabtagene ciloleucel in a nonrandomized trial (n = 108). Affective disorder occurred in 10% (grade 3 or higher, 1%) of patients with follicular lymphoma who received axicabtagene ciloleucel in another nonrandomized trial (n = 146). The term delirium includes agitation, delusion, disorientation, hallucinations, hyperactivity, irritability, and restlessness. The term affective disorder includes anxiety, depression, impulsive behavior, mania, and panic attack.


edema


Edema was reported in 13% to 23% (grade 3 or higher, 1%) of patients with relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin lymphoma (excluding CNS lymphoma) who received axicabtagene ciloleucel in clinical trials.


cough, dyspnea, hypoxia, nasal congestion, pleural effusion, pulmonary edema, respiratory arrest


Hypoxia including decreased oxygen saturation (21% to 32%; grade 3 or higher, 8% to 11%), cough including upper-airway cough syndrome (25% to 30%; grade 3 or higher, 1% or less), dyspnea (8% to 19%; grade 3 or higher, 3% or less), pleural effusion (13% or less; grade 3 or higher, 2% or less), pulmonary edema (9% or less), nasal congestion (10% or less), and respiratory failure (2% or less) were reported in patients with relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin lymphoma (excluding CNS lymphoma) who received axicabtagene ciloleucel in clinical trials. The term dyspnea includes acute respiratory failure, orthopnea, and respiratory distress/respiratory arrest.


nephrotoxicity


Nephrotoxicity, specifically renal insufficiency, was reported in 8% to 12% (grade 3 or higher, 5% or less) of patients with relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin lymphoma (excluding CNS lymphoma) who received axicabtagene ciloleucel in clinical trials.


pulmonary embolism, thromboembolism, thrombosis


Thrombosis was reported in 7% to 12% (grade 3 or higher, 4% or less) of patients with relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin lymphoma (excluding CNS lymphoma) who received axicabtagene ciloleucel in clinical trials. The term thrombosis included deep vein thrombosis, venous thromboembolism, pulmonary embolism, splenic infarction, splenic vein thrombosis, subclavian vein thrombosis, and thrombosis in device.


coagulopathy


Coagulopathy was reported in 2% to 9% of patients with relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin lymphoma (excluding CNS lymphoma) who received axicabtagene ciloleucel in clinical trials.


rash


Rash was reported in 9% to 19% (grade 3 or higher, 3% or less) of patients with relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin lymphoma (excluding CNS lymphoma) who received axicabtagene ciloleucel in clinical trials.


capillary leak syndrome


Capillary leak syndrome was reported in 3% of patients with relapsed or refractory aggressive B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma who received axicabtagene ciloleucel in a nonrandomized trial (n = 108).


fatigue


Fatigue was reported in 46% to 52% (grade 3 or higher, 1% to 7%) of patients with relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin lymphoma (excluding CNS lymphoma) who received axicabtagene ciloleucel in clinical trials.


arthralgia, back pain, bone pain, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, weakness


Motor dysfunction occurred in 15% to 19% (grade 3 or higher, 1% to 4%) of patients with relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin lymphoma (excluding CNS lymphoma) who received axicabtagene ciloleucel in clinical trials. Other musculoskeletal events that were reported with axicabtagene ciloleucel in clinical studies include musculoskeletal pain (40% or less; grade 3 or higher, 1% or less), extremity pain (17% or less; grade 3 or higher, 2% or less), back pain (15% or less; grade 3 or higher, 1% or less), muscle pain/myalgia (14% or less; grade 3 or higher, 1% or less), arthralgia (10% or less), and muscle injury (1% or less). The term motor dysfunction included involuntary muscle contractions, spasms, rigidity, strain, twitching, and weakness. The term musculoskeletal pain included arthralgia, back pain, bone pain, flank pain, groin pain, musculoskeletal chest pain, myalgia, neck pain, osteoarthritis, and extremity pain.


chills, fever


Fever (85% to 93%; grade 3 or higher, 8% to 16%) and chills (28% to 40%; grade 3 or higher, 1% or less) were reported in patients with relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin lymphoma (excluding CNS lymphoma) who received axicabtagene ciloleucel in clinical trials.


anemia, leukopenia, lymphopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia


Grade 3 or higher cytopenias not resolved by day 30 were reported in 39% of patients with relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin lymphoma (excluding CNS lymphoma) following lymphodepleting chemotherapy and axicabtagene ciloleucel (n = 422) in clinical trials; prolonged cytopenias included thrombocytopenia (13%), neutropenia (33%), and anemia (8%). Monitor complete blood counts regularly until hematologic recovery. Grade 3 or 4 cytopenias that developed after axicabtagene ciloleucel therapy included decreased leukocyte count/leukopenia (94% to 96%), decreased neutrophil count/neutropenia (92% to 94%), decreased lymphocyte count/lymphopenia (94% to 96%), decreased hemoglobin level/anemia (32% to 60%), and decreased platelet count/thrombocytopenia (26% to 56%). Additionally, febrile neutropenia was reported following axicabtagene ciloleucel therapy in 36% of patients; it sometimes occurred concurrently with cytokine release syndrome. If a patient develops febrile neutropenia, evaluate for signs of infection and manage with broad spectrum antibiotics and supportive care therapy (e.g., fluids) as medically indicated.


hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hyponatremia, hypophosphatemia


Grade 3 or 4 decreased phosphate level/hypophosphatemia (52% or less), decreased sodium level/hyponatremia (10% to 19%), decreased calcium level/hypocalcemia (10% or less), and decreased potassium level/hypokalemia (11% or less) were reported in patients with relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin lymphoma (excluding CNS lymphoma) who received axicabtagene ciloleucel in clinical trials.


hyperuricemia


Grade 3 or 4 hyperuricemia was reported in 13% of patients with relapsed or refractory aggressive B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma who received axicabtagene ciloleucel in a nonrandomized trial (n = 108). Additionally, grade 3 or 4 hyperuricemia occurred in 10% of patients with follicular lymphoma who received axicabtagene ciloleucel in another nonrandomized trial (n = 146).


hyperbilirubinemia


Grade 3 or 4 increased direct bilirubin level/hyperbilirubinemia was reported in 14% of patients with relapsed or refractory aggressive B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma who received axicabtagene ciloleucel in a nonrandomized trial (n = 108).


antibody formation


Antibody formation to FMC63, the originating antibody of the anti-CD19 chimeric antigen receptor, was detected at baseline (pre-dose) in 4% of patients with relapsed or refractory large B-cell lymphoma (LBL) in 2 clinical trials. Following the axicabtagene ciloleucel dose, antibody formation was present in 1% of LBL patients who had negative test results at baseline. In another trial in patients with relapsed or refractory follicular lymphoma, antibody formation to FMC63 was present at baseline (pre-dose) in 13% of patients and post-dose in 2% of patients who had negative test results at baseline. A confirmatory cell-based assay demonstrated that all patients who had a positive result using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) at screening were antibody negative at all time points tested. There is no evidence that the presence of antibodies has an impact on axicabtagene ciloleucel efficacy or its safety profile.


anaphylactoid reactions


Hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylactoid reactions were reported in 1% of patients with relapsed or refractory aggressive B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma who received axicabtagene ciloleucel in a nonrandomized trial (n = 108). Premedicate patients with acetaminophen and diphenhydramine prior to the axicabtagene ciloleucel infusion.


macrophage activation syndrome


Hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis/macrophage activation syndrome (HLH/MAS) and hypersensitivity was reported in 1% of patients with relapsed or refractory aggressive B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma who received axicabtagene ciloleucel in a nonrandomized trial (n = 108).


cytokine release syndrome


Cytokine release syndrome (CRS) was reported in 90% (grade 3 or higher, 9%) of patients with relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin lymphoma who received axicabtagene ciloleucel (n = 422) in clinical trials. Ongoing CRS at the time of death was reported in 5 patients (large B-cell lymphoma, n = 4/276; follicular lymphoma, n = 1/146) who died after receiving axicabtagene ciloleucel. Symptoms of CRS may include fever (85%), hypotension (40%), tachycardia (32%), hypoxia (20%), chills (22%), headache (15%), and fatigue (12%). Serious events that may be associated with CRS include cardiac arrhythmias (including atrial fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia), cardiac arrest, heart failure, renal insufficiency, capillary leak syndrome, multiorgan failure, and hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis/macrophage activation syndrome. Multiple organ dysfunction syndrome occurred in 1% of patients with follicular lymphoma who received axicabtagene ciloleucel in a nonrandomized trial (n = 146). Observe patients closely for signs or symptoms of CRS at least daily for 7 days following the infusion, and continue monitoring for 2 weeks after the infusion. Treat severe or life-threatening CRS with tocilizumab or tocilizumab and corticosteroids. Patients with mild symptoms (e.g., fever, nausea, fatigue, headache, myalgia, and malaise) may require symptomatic treatment only. Monitor patients with grade 2 or higher CRS (e.g., hypotension, not responsive to fluids, or hypoxia requiring supplemental oxygenation) with continuous cardiac telemetry and pulse oximetry. Consider performing an echocardiogram to assess cardiac function in patients who develop severe CRS. Intensive care supportive therapy may be required in patients who have severe or life-threatening CRS. The use of prophylactic corticosteroids (dexamethasone 10 mg PO once daily for 3 days starting prior to axicabtagene ciloleucel infusion) resulted in delayed onset and decreased duration of CRS in a cohort of 39 patients with large B-cell lymphoma from a clinical trial. However, patients in this cohort had more severe and longer lasting neurologic toxicities. Therefore, consider the use of prophylactic corticosteroids only after a risk versus benefit assessment taking into account individual patient comorbidities.


amnesia, aphasia, aphonia, ataxia, cerebral edema, confusion, dizziness, drowsiness, dysarthria, dyskinesia, dysphagia, encephalopathy, headache, lethargy, leukoencephalopathy, loss of consciousness, memory impairment, myelitis, myoclonia, neurotoxicity, paranoia, paresis, peripheral neuropathy, seizures, stroke, syncope, tremor, vertigo


Neurotoxicity (78%; grade 3 or higher, 25%) including encephalopathy (50%; grade 3 or higher, 16% to 29%), headache (43%; grade 3 or higher, 1% to 3%), tremor (29%; grade 3 or higher, 1% to 2%), dizziness including syncope and vertigo (21%; grade 3 or higher, 4% or less), and aphasia (17%; grade 3 or higher, 4% to 7%) was reported in patients with relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin lymphoma (excluding CNS lymphoma) who received axicabtagene ciloleucel (n = 422) in clinical trials. Most toxicities occurred within the first 8 weeks after therapy. Fatal and serious cases of cerebral edema and encephalopathy have occurred including prolonged encephalopathy lasting up to 173 days. Cerebral edema occurred at a higher frequency in patients with primary mediastinal large B-cell lymphoma (PMBCL); monitor these patients closely for signs and symptoms. Neurologic toxicity may occur concurrently with cytokine release syndrome (CRS) or after CRS resolves. Monitor patients closely for signs or symptoms of neurotoxicity at least daily for 7 days following the infusion, and continue monitoring for 2 weeks after the infusion; administer supportive care and/or corticosteroids as indicated. Monitor patients with grade 2 or higher neurotoxicity with continuous cardiac telemetry and pulse oximetry. Consider starting levetiracetam for seizure prophylaxis in patients who experience any grade neurotoxicity. Provide intensive care supportive therapy in patients who develop severe or life-threatening neurologic toxicities. Other neurotoxicity that was reported with axicabtagene ciloleucel in clinical studies include peripheral neuropathy (12% or less; grade 3 or higher, 2% or less), ataxia (10% or less), seizures (4% or less), dyscalculia (2% or less), myoclonia (2% or less), Hemiparesis/paresis (2% or less), facial paralysis (2% or less), and ischemic stroke (1% or less). The term ataxia included balance disorder, gait disturbance, and vestibular disorder. The term encephalopathy included agraphia, amnesia, aphonia, apraxia, bradyphrenia, CAR T-cell-related encephalopathy syndrome, cognitive disorder, confusion, depressed level or loss of consciousness, disturbance in attention, hypersomnia, immune effector cell-associated neurotoxicity, leukoencephalopathy, dysarthria, dysgraphia, dyskinesia, dyspraxia, lethargy, memory impairment, mental status changes, paranoia, somnolence/drowsiness, speech disorder, and stupor. Spinal cord edema, cerebral edema, myelitis, quadriplegia, dysphagia, and status epilepticus were reported in postmarketing surveillance of axicabtagene ciloleucel. The use of prophylactic corticosteroids (dexamethasone 10 mg PO once daily for 3 days starting prior to axicabtagene ciloleucel infusion) resulted in more severe and longer lasting neurologic toxicities in a cohort of 39 patients with large B-cell lymphoma from a clinical trial. Therefore, consider the use of prophylactic corticosteroids only after a risk versus benefit assessment taking into account individual patient comorbidities.


hyperglycemia


Grade 3 or 4 hyperglycemia occurred in 11% or less of patients with relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin lymphoma (excluding CNS lymphoma) who received axicabtagene ciloleucel in clinical trials.


bleeding


Bleeding occurred in 8% of patients with follicular lymphoma who received axicabtagene ciloleucel in a nonrandomized trial (n = 146).


visual impairment


Visual impairment (5% to 7%) and blindness (1% or less) occurred in patients with relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin lymphoma (excluding CNS lymphoma) who received axicabtagene ciloleucel in clinical trials.


hypoalbuminemia


Grade 3 or 4 decreased albumin level/hypoalbuminemia was reported in 19% of patients with relapsed or refractory aggressive B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma who received axicabtagene ciloleucel in a nonrandomized trial (n = 108).


lymphoma, new primary hematologic malignancy


T-cell malignancies, including chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-positive lymphoma, have been reported in patients who received treatment with CD19-directed autologous CAR T-cell immunotherapy, including axicabtagene ciloleucel, in postmarketing surveillance. Mature T-cell malignancies may present in the weeks following the axicabtagene ciloleucel infusion; fatal outcomes are possible. If a patient develops a new primary hematologic malignancy following treatment with axicabtagene ciloleucel, contact Kite at 1-844-454-5483 for instructions on how to collect patient samples for testing for the presence of the CAR transgene. Report suspected adverse events, including T-cell malignancies, to the FDA.


infusion-related reactions


Infusion-related reactions were reported in postmarketing surveillance of axicabtagene ciloleucel.


laboratory test interference


False-positive HIV test results have been reported in patients who received treatment with chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell immunotherapy, such as axicabtagene ciloleucel. The use of gammaretroviral or lentiviral vectors to reprogram T-cells as part of CAR T-cell therapy has resulted in laboratory test interference with HIV-1 nucleic acid amplification testing (NAAT). False test results may occur due to vector interference with long terminal repeat (LTR) genomes in HIV NAAT. Alternative testing methods for HIV (e.g., assays that target p24 antigen and anti-HIV-1 antibodies or the integrase gene) should be performed in patients who have received CAR T-cell therapy.


Description

Axicabtagene ciloleucel is a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell gene therapy. It is CD19-directed immunotherapy that works by using a patient's own genetically altered immune cells to kill B-cell cancer cells in the blood. Axicabtagene ciloleucel is indicated for use after 2 or more lines of systemic therapy in adult patients with relapsed or refractory large B-cell lymphoma (LBL; e.g., diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) not otherwise specified, primary mediastinal large B-cell lymphoma, high-grade B-cell lymphoma, and DLBCL arising from follicular lymphoma) or lymphoma. Axicabtagene ciloleucel is also indicated in adults with LBL that is refractory to first-line chemoimmunotherapy or that relapses within 12 months of first-line chemoimmunotherapy. It is not indicated for the treatment of patients with primary central nervous system lymphoma. Axicabtagene ciloleucel has black box warnings for cytokine release syndrome, severe neurotoxicity, and new T-cell malignancies.

Mechanism Of Action

Axicabtagene ciloleucel is a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy that works by redirecting T-cells to target the CD19 antigen on B-cells in patients with hematologic malignancies. The domains, CD28 and CD3-zeta, activate downstream signaling cascades that lead to T-cell activation, proliferation, acquisition of effector functions, and secretion of inflammatory cytokines and chemokines. The binding of CAR to CD19 activates axicabtagene ciloleucel and promotes cell expansion and differentiation and triggers the lysis of CD19-positive cells.
This immunotherapy involves removing, genetically modifying, and then re-infusing a patient’s own T-cells. During the manufacturing process, the cells are genetically modified using retroviral transduction to express a CAR comprised of a murine anti-CD19 single chain variable fragment linked to CD28 and CD3-zeta co-stimulatory domains.
To produce CAR T-cell therapy, T-cells are collected from the blood by leukapheresis; enriched; activated with anti-CD3 antibody in the presence of IL-2; transduced with the replication incompetent retroviral vector containing the anti-CD19 CAR transgene; expanded to large numbers in a cell culture; and then washed, formulated into a suspension, and cryopreserved.

Pharmacokinetics

Axicabtagene ciloleucel is administered intravenously. The number of anti-CD19 chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cells in blood correlated with objective response in evaluable patients with relapsed or refractory aggressive B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma who received axicabtagene ciloleucel (n = 96) in a nonrandomized trial. The time to peak anti-CD19 CAR T-cell levels occurred within 7 to 14 days following the axicabtagene ciloleucel infusion.
Pharmacodynamics: Peak levels of cytokines and chemokines (e.g., IL-6, IL-8, IL-10, IL-15, TNF-alpha, IFN-gamma, and sIL2R-alpha) were observed within 14 days of the axicabtagene ciloleucel infusion; these levels typically returned to baseline within 28 days.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Intravenous Route

In patients with large B-cell lymphoma (LBL), the median anti-CD19 chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell Cmax and AUC(0-28 days) values were 205% (43.6 vs. 21.2 cells/microliter (microL)) and 251% (557.1 vs. 222 days X cells/microL) higher, respectively, in 73 patients who achieved an objective response compared (responders) with 23 patients who were nonresponders in a nonrandomized trial. Additionally, patients with LBL had median anti-CD19 CAR T cell Cmax and AUC(0-28 days) values that were 275% (28.9 vs. 10.5 cells/microL) and 418% (292.9 vs. 70.1 days X cells/microL) higher, respectively, in 142 responders compared with 20 nonresponders in another clinical trial. In patients with follicular lymphoma, the median anti-CD19 CAR T-cell Cmax level was 40.1 cells/microL in 74 patients who achieved an objective response and 46 cells/microL in 7 patients who were nonresponders in a nonrandomized trial; the median anti-CD19 CAR T-cell AUC(0-28 days) values were 465.8 and 404.5 days X cells/microL, respectively.

Geriatric

Age (range, 21 to 80 years) had no significant impact on axicabtagene ciloleucel AUC(0-28 days) or Cmax values.

Gender Differences

Gender had no significant impact on axicabtagene ciloleucel AUC(0-28 days) or Cmax values.

Other

Immunosuppressive therapy
The anti-CD19 chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell Cmax and AUC(0-28 days) values were 232% and 262% higher, respectively, in patients who received tocilizumab to treat cytokine release syndrome or neurologic toxicity (n = 44) compared with patients who did not receive tocilizumab (n = 57) in a nonrandomized trial. Additionally, the anti-CD19 CAR T-cell Cmax and AUC(0-28 days) values were 155% and 217% higher, respectively, in patients who received corticosteroids (n = 26) compared with patients who did not receive corticosteroids (n = 75).

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
NOTE: Axicabtagene ciloleucel may carry the risk of transmitting infectious diseases to health care professionals handling the product. Employ universal precautions in handling axicabtagene ciloleucel; follow local biosafety guidelines applicable for disposal.
Emetic Risk
Low
Administer routine antiemetic prophylaxis prior to treatment.
Premedication
Premedicate with acetaminophen 650 mg PO and diphenhydramine 12.5 mg IV or PO approximately 1 hour prior to the infusion.
Consider the use of prophylactic corticosteroids only after weighing the potential benefits and risks.


Injectable Administration

Visually inspect the contents of the infusion bag for any breaks or cracks before thawing. Do not infuse the contents if the bag is compromised; follow local guidelines or call Kite Pharma at 1-844-454-5483.

Intravenous Administration


Axicabtagene ciloleucel is for autologous and intravenous use.
Each dose of axicabtagene ciloleucel contains a maximum of 2 x 10^8 CAR-positive viable T-cells suspended in a single patient-specific infusion bag; the total infusion bag volume is approximately 68 mL.
Confirm that a minimum of 2 doses of tocilizumab and emergency equipment are available prior to the infusion and during the recovery period.
Coordinate the timing of the axicabtagene ciloleucel thaw and infusion; confirm the infusion time in advance, and adjust the start time for thaw so that the recipient will be ready.
Preparation
Match the patient's identity with the patient identifiers on the cassette; do not remove the product bag from the cassette if the patient-specific label does not match the intended recipient.
Remove the product bag from the cassette; verify that the patient information on the cassette label matches the bag label.
Put the infusion bag inside a second, sterile bag to protect against leaks and port contamination.
Thaw the infusion bag at 37 degrees Celsius (C) using either a water bath or dry thaw method; once there is no visible ice in the infusion bag, gently mix the contents of the bag to allow the clumps of cellular material to disperse.
If visible cell clumps remain, continue to gently mix the contents of the bag; small clumps of cellular material should disperse with gentle manual mixing.
Do not wash, spin down, and/or re-suspend axicabtagene ciloleucel in new medium prior to infusion.
Storage: After thawing, the product may be stored at room temperature (20 to 25 degrees C) for up to 3 hours.
Intravenous (IV) Infusion
Confirm the patient's identity with the patient identifiers on the infusion bag.
Prime the tubing with normal saline prior to the infusion; do not use a leukocyte-depleting filter.
Administer as an IV infusion within 30 minutes via gravity or a peristaltic pump until the infusion bag is empty.
Gently agitate the product bag during the infusion to prevent cell clumping.
Rinse the tubing with normal saline at the same infusion rate to ensure all product contents are delivered.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

2 X 106 CAR-positive viable T-cells per kg of body weight (maximum dose of 2 X 108 CAR-positive viable T-cells) as a single IV dose.

Geriatric

2 X 106 CAR-positive viable T-cells per kg of body weight (maximum dose of 2 X 108 CAR-positive viable T-cells) as a single IV dose.

Adolescents

Safety and Efficacy not established.

Children

Safety and Efficacy not established.

Infants

Safety and Efficacy not established.

Dosage Forms

YESCARTA Suspension for Injection

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

Renal Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

© 2026 Elsevier