=== AbobotulinumtoxinA — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 3663)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: AbobotulinumtoxinA is a botulinum toxin type A-hemagglutinin complex approved for the treatment of cervical dystonia and glabellar lines in adults, and for the treatment of spasticity in both pediatric and adult patients.

Routes: injection (IV/IM/SC); Common adult doses: Maximum dosage is not well defined; dosage is dependent upon treatment effect and indication.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): arthralgia, asthenia, back pain, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, myasthenia, paresis, weakness, depression, dizziness, dysarthria, headache, hypertonia, hypoesthesia, insomnia, seizures, syncope, vertigo, infection, influenza, pharyngitis, sinusitis, contact dermatitis, erythema, fatigue, fever, injection site reaction, peripheral edema, blurred vision, diplopia

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. AbobotulinumtoxinA is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to any botulinum toxin product or cow's milk protein (milk protein hypersensitivity).

ABOBOTULINUMTOXINA

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Dysport

Indication Specific Dosing

General Dosing Information
The potency units of abobotulinumtoxinA are not interchangeable with other botulinum toxin products; do not compare to or convert into units of any other botulinum toxin products.


For the treatment of cervical dystonia

Intramuscular dosage
Adults


500 units IM divided among affected muscles with repeat treatments every 12 weeks or longer, as necessary, based on return of clinical symptoms. If dose modification is necessary, data from uncontrolled open-label studies suggest dose adjustments can be made in 250 unit increments based on individual patient response. Uncontrolled studies also recommend a total dose range per treatment cycle between 250 units and 1,000 units. Doses above 1,000 units in a single treatment have not been systematically studied.


For the treatment of glabellar lines (facial wrinkles or vertical lines between the eyebrows)

Intramuscular dosage
Adults younger than 65 years


50 units IM administered in 5 equal aliquots of 10 units each: 2 injections in each corrugator muscle and 1 injection in the procerus muscle. The clinical effect may last for up to 4 months; if needed, repeat doses may be given after no less than 3 months. Repeat dose clinical studies suggest continued efficacy with up to 4 repeated administrations. When used for re-treatment, use the same reconstitution and injection methods as the initial treatment.


For the treatment of spasticity

For the treatment of upper limb spasticity
Intramuscular dosage
Adults


500 to 1,000 units divided between selected muscles at a given treatment session. Specific dose range is based on muscle group. PRONATOR TERES: 100 to 200 units (1 injection per muscle). FLEXOR CARPI RADIALIS, FLEXOR CARPI ULNARIS, FLEXOR DIGITORUM PROFUNDUS, or FLEXOR DIGITORUM SUPERFICIALIS: 100 to 200 units (1 to 2 injections per muscle). BRACHIORADIALIS: 100 to 200 units (1 to 2 injections per muscle). BRACHIALIS or BICEPS BRACHII: 200 to 400 units (1 to 2 injections per muscle). Do not administer more than 1 mL per single injection site. The maximum total dose per treatment session (upper limb and lower limb combined) is 1,500 units. Clinical improvement may be expected 1 week after administration. Injections may be repeated to maintain response; do not administer more frequently than every 12 weeks. A majority of patients in clinical trials were retreated in 12 to 16 weeks; some patients may have longer duration of response (i.e., 16 to 20 weeks). Tailor dosing to the individual based on the size, number and location of muscles involved, severity of spasticity, the presence of local muscle weakness, the patient's response to previous treatment, or adverse event history with abobotulinumtoxinA. Upon re-injection, the degree and pattern of muscle spasticity may necessitate alterations in the dose of abobotulinumtoxinA and muscles to be injected.


Children and Adolescents 2 to 17 years


8 to 16 units/kg IM per limb; divide total dose between the affected spastic muscles. Recommended dose range is based on muscles injected. BRACHIALIS: 3 to 6 units/kg per muscle per limb (up to 2 injections per muscle). BRACHIORADIALIS: 1.5 to 3 units/kg per muscle per limb (1 injection per muscle). BICEPS BRACHII: 3 to 6 units/kg per muscle per limb (up to 2 injections per muscle). PRONATOR TERES: 1 to 2 units/kg per muscle per limb (1 injection per muscle). PRONATOR QUADRATUS: 0.5 to 1 unit/kg per muscle per limb (1 injection per muscle). FLEXOR CARPI RADIALIS (FCR): 2 to 4 units/kg per muscle per limb (up to 2 injections per muscle). FLEXOR CARPI ULNARIS (FCU): 1.5 to 3 units/kg per muscle per limb (1 injection per muscle). FLEXOR DIGITORUM PROFUNDUS (FDP): 1 to 2 units/kg per muscle per limb (1 injection per muscle). FLEXOR DIGITORUM SUPERFICIALIAS (FDS): 1.5 to 3 units/kg per muscle per limb (up to 4 injections per muscle). Do not administer more than 0.5 mL per injection site. The maximum total dose per treatment session is 16 units/kg or 640 units, whichever is less. Injections may be repeated to maintain response; do not administer more frequently than every 16 weeks. Most patients are retreated between 16 to 28 weeks. Individualize dose based on the size, number, and location of muscles involved, severity of spasticity, presence of local muscle weakness, patient response, and/or adverse event history with botulinum toxins.


For the treatment of lower limb spasticity
Intramuscular dosage
Adults


1,000 to 1,500 units divided between selected muscles at a given treatment session. Specific dose range is based on muscle group. MEDIAL OR LATERAL HEAD OF GASTROCNEMIUS: 100 to 150 units (1 injection per muscle). SOLEUS: 330 to 500 units (3 injections per muscle). TIBIALIS POSTERIOR: 200 to 300 units (2 injections per muscle). FLEXOR DIGITORUM LONGUS: 130 to 200 units (1 to 2 injections per muscle). FLEXOR HALLUCIS LONGUS: 70 to 200 units (1 injection per muscle). Do not administer more than 1 mL per single injection site. The maximum total dose per treatment session (upper limb and lower limb combined) is 1,500 units. Injections may be repeated to maintain response; do not administer more frequently than every 12 weeks. A majority of patients in clinical trials were retreated in 12 to 16 weeks. Tailor dosing to the individual based on the size, number and location of muscles involved, severity of spasticity, the presence of local muscle weakness, the patient's response to previous treatment, or adverse event history with abobotulinumtoxinA. Upon re-injection, the degree and pattern of muscle spasticity may necessitate alterations in the dose of abobotulinumtoxinA and muscles to be injected.


Children and Adolescents 2 to 17 years


10 to 15 units/kg IM for unilateral lower limb injections or 20 to 30 units/kg for bilateral lower limb injections is the recommended total dose per treatment session; divide total dose between the affected spastic muscles. Recommended dose range is based on muscles injected. GASTRONEMIUS MUSCLE: 6 to 9 units/kg per muscle per limb (up to 4 injections per muscle). SOLEUS MUSCLE: 4 to 6 units/kg per muscle per limb (up to 2 injections per muscle). When possible, distribute the dose across more than 1 injection site in any single muscle. Do not administer more than 0.5 mL per injection site. The maximum total dose per treatment session is 15 units/kg for unilateral limb injections or 30 units/kg for bilateral limb injections or 1,000 units, whichever is less. Injections may be repeated to maintain response; do not administer more frequently than every 12 weeks. Most patients are retreated between 16 to 22 weeks. Individualize dose based on the size, number, and location of muscles involved, severity of spasticity, presence of local muscle weakness, patient response, and/or adverse event history with botulinum toxins.


For the treatment of blepharospasm† and hemifacial spasm†

For the treatment of bilateral blepharospasm†
Subcutaneous dosage†
Adults


The recommended initial dose is 120 units subcutaneously per eye: 20 units subcutaneously injected medially and 40 units subcutaneously injected laterally into the junction between the preseptal and orbital parts of both the upper and lower orbicularis oculi muscles of each eye. Symptom relief may begin within 2 to 4 days, with maximal effect within 2 weeks. May repeat no more frequently than every 12 weeks or as needed to prevent recurrence of symptoms. Subsequent treatment sessions may require a dose reduction to 80 units per eye: 20 units medially and 20 units laterally above and below each eye in the manner previously described. The dose may be further reduced to 60 units per eye by omitting the medial lower lid injection.


For the treatment of unilateral blepharospasm† and hemifacial spasm†
Subcutaneous dosage†
Adults


The recommended initial dose is 120 units subcutaneously to the affected eye: 20 units subcutaneously injected medially and 40 units subcutaneously injected laterally into the junction between the preseptal and orbital parts of both the upper and lower orbicularis oculi muscles of the affected eye. Patients with hemifacial spasm should be treated as for unilateral blepharospasm. Symptom relief may begin within 2 to 4 days, with maximal effect within 2 weeks. Repeat no more frequently than every 12 weeks or as needed to prevent recurrence of symptoms. Subsequent treatment sessions may require a dose reduction to 80 units per eye: 20 units medially and 20 units laterally above and below each eye in the manner previously described. The dose may be further reduced to 60 units per eye by omitting the medial lower lid injection.


For the treatment of axillary hyperhidrosis† (excessive sweating)

Intradermal dosage†
Adults


The recommended initial dose is 100 units intradermally per axilla; may be increased to up to 200 units per axilla per treatment session if desired response is not achieved. Maximum effect may be expected within 2 weeks after injection. In the majority of cases, the recommended dose will provide adequate suppression of sweat secretion for approximately 48 weeks. Injections may be repeated if needed, no more frequently than every 12 weeks. There is some evidence for a cumulative effect with repeat doses; assess the needs of each patient individually. In a multicenter trial (n = 145, baseline mean rate of sweat production of 192 +/- 136 mg/minute), 200 units was injected into 1 axilla and placebo was injected into the other. At 2 weeks post-injection, mean rates of sweat production in the axilla treated with abobotulinumtoxinA or placebo were 24 +/- 27 mg/minute and 144 +/- 113 mg/minute, respectively. An additional 100 units was then injected into the previously untreated axilla, which reduced sweat production to 32 +/- 39 mg/minute. At 24 weeks, the mean rate of sweat production was significantly below baseline levels for both axillae in those patients (n = 136) receiving follow-up.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. AbobotulinumtoxinA is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to any botulinum toxin product or cow's milk protein (milk protein hypersensitivity). This product may contain trace amounts of cow's milk protein.

Treatment-Related Restrictions of Use

AbobotulinumtoxinA is contraindicated in the presence of infection at the proposed injection site(s).

General Information

Care must be taken to ensure proper administration in individuals with surgical alterations to the facial anatomy, marked facial asymmetry, excessive dermatochalasis (loose skin), ptosis, deep dermal scarring, thick sebaceous skin, inflammation at the proposed injection site(s), or the inability to lessen glabellar lines by physically spreading them apart.
Use caution when abobotulinumtoxinA is used when excessive weakness or atrophy is present in the targeted muscle(s).

distant spread of toxin effects


Postmarketing safety data suggest injection of botulinum toxins may, in some cases, result in the distant spread of toxin effects resulting in systemic symptoms (e.g., asthenia, generalized muscle weakness, diplopia, ptosis, trouble swallowing, dysphonia, dysarthria, urinary incontinence, breathing difficulties). Advise individuals or caregivers to seek immediate medical care if swallowing, speech, or respiratory disorders occur. These symptoms have been reported hours to weeks after injection. There have been reports of death related to the spread of toxin effects. Risk is probably greatest in children treated for spasticity, but symptoms can also occur in adults treated for other indications, especially in those who have underlying conditions predisposing them to these effects. In unapproved uses and in approved indications, cases of spread of effect have been reported at doses comparable to or lower than the maximum recommended total dose.


asthma, dysphagia, emphysema, respiratory insufficiency


Treatment with abobotulinumtoxinA and other botulinum toxins can result in swallowing or breathing difficulties. Individuals with pre-existing dysphagia or respiratory insufficiency, such as asthma or emphysema, may be more susceptible to these complications. In most cases, this is a consequence of weakening of muscles in the area of injection. When distant effects occur, additional respiratory muscles may be involved. Treatment of cervical dystonia with botulinum toxins may weaken neck muscles that serve as accessory muscles of ventilation. This may result in critical loss of breathing capacity in individuals with respiratory disorders who have become dependent upon these accessory muscles. Serious breathing difficulties, including respiratory failure, have been reported in individuals with cervical dystonia treated with botulinum toxins. Individuals with smaller neck muscle mass and patients who require bilateral injections into the sternocleidomastoid muscles have been reported to be at greater risk of dysphagia. Deaths as a complication of severe dysphagia have been reported. Aspiration may result from severe dysphagia and is a particular risk when treating individuals in whom swallowing or respiratory function is already compromised. Dysphagia may persist for several months. Limit the dose injected into the sternocleidomastoid muscle to decrease the occurrence of dysphagia.


neuromuscular disease


Use abobotulinumtoxinA with caution in individuals with peripheral motor neuropathic diseases, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), or neuromuscular junction disorders (myasthenia gravis or Lambert-Eaton syndrome). Individuals with known or unrecognized neuromuscular disease or neuromuscular junction disorders may be at increased risk of severe dysphagia and respiratory compromise from typical doses of abobotulinumtoxinA. Exercise caution when using abobotulinumtoxinA in individuals with excessive weakness or atrophy of the targeted muscles.


activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery


Caution all individuals to avoid driving or operating machinery or performing activities requiring coordination and concentration if they experience a loss of strength, muscle weakness, blurred vision, or drooping eyelids as a result of abobotulinumtoxinA therapy.


breast-feeding


There are no data on the presence of abobotulinumtoxinA in human milk, the effects on the breast-fed child, or the effects on milk production.  Consider the benefits of breast-feeding along with the patient's clinical need for abobotulinumtoxinA and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from the medication or from the underlying medical condition.


people who can cause pregnancy in others, people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk


Counsel people who may become pregnant and people who can cause pregnancy in others about the reproductive risk associated with abobotulinumtoxinA. In animal studies, abobotulinumtoxinA had an adverse effect on fertility and mating behavior. There are no data on the impact of abobotulinumtoxinA on fertility in humans.


pregnancy


Administer abobotulinumtoxinA during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus. No adequate and well-controlled studies have been conducted in pregnant individuals. In animal studies, abobotulinumtoxinA produced embryofetal toxicity in relation to maternal toxicity at doses lower than or similar to the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of 1,000 units/kg.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Administer abobotulinumtoxinA during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus. No adequate and well-controlled studies have been conducted in pregnant individuals. In animal studies, abobotulinumtoxinA produced embryofetal toxicity in relation to maternal toxicity at doses lower than or similar to the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of 1,000 units/kg.


Interactions

Amikacin: (Moderate) The effects of botulinum toxin can be potentiated by systemic aminoglycosides or other drugs that interfere with neuromuscular transmission. Monitor aminoglycoside concentrations, and monitor for evidence of neurotoxicity including systemic neuromuscular blockade.
Anticholinergics: (Moderate) The use of systemic antimuscarinic/anticholinergic agents following the administration of botulinum toxins may result in a potentiation of systemic anticholinergic effects (e.g., blurred vision, dry mouth, constipation, or urinary retention).
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Excessive neuromuscular weakness may be exacerbated by coadministration of a botulinum toxin with skeletal muscle relaxants. Advise patients to seek medical assistance if they develop any unusual symptoms (including difficulty with swallowing, speaking, or breathing or walking), or if any existing symptom worsens during use of a botulinum toxin.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Excessive neuromuscular weakness may be exacerbated by coadministration of a botulinum toxin with skeletal muscle relaxants. Advise patients to seek medical assistance if they develop any unusual symptoms (including difficulty with swallowing, speaking, or breathing or walking), or if any existing symptom worsens during use of a botulinum toxin.
Atracurium: (Moderate) Use neuromuscular blockers and botulinum toxins concurrently with caution because the effect of the botulinum toxin may be potentiated. If coadministered, observe the patient closely.
Atropine: (Moderate) The use of systemic antimuscarinic/anticholinergic agents following the administration of botulinum toxins may result in a potentiation of systemic anticholinergic effects (e.g., blurred vision, dry mouth, constipation, or urinary retention).
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Moderate) The use of systemic antimuscarinic/anticholinergic agents following the administration of botulinum toxins may result in a potentiation of systemic anticholinergic effects (e.g., blurred vision, dry mouth, constipation, or urinary retention).
Baclofen: (Moderate) Excessive neuromuscular weakness may be exacerbated by coadministration of a botulinum toxin with skeletal muscle relaxants. Advise patients to seek medical assistance if they develop any unusual symptoms (including difficulty with swallowing, speaking, or breathing or walking), or if any existing symptom worsens during use of a botulinum toxin.
Belladonna; Opium: (Moderate) The use of systemic antimuscarinic/anticholinergic agents following the administration of botulinum toxins may result in a potentiation of systemic anticholinergic effects (e.g., blurred vision, dry mouth, constipation, or urinary retention).
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Moderate) The use of systemic antimuscarinic/anticholinergic agents following the administration of botulinum toxins may result in a potentiation of systemic anticholinergic effects (e.g., blurred vision, dry mouth, constipation, or urinary retention).
Benztropine: (Moderate) The use of systemic antimuscarinic/anticholinergic agents following the administration of botulinum toxins may result in a potentiation of systemic anticholinergic effects (e.g., blurred vision, dry mouth, constipation, or urinary retention).
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) The use of systemic antimuscarinic/anticholinergic agents following the administration of botulinum toxins may result in a potentiation of systemic anticholinergic effects (e.g., blurred vision, dry mouth, constipation, or urinary retention).
Capreomycin: (Moderate) The effects of Botulinum Toxins could be potentiated by drugs that interfere with neuromuscular transmission, such as capreomycin.
Capsaicin; Metaxalone: (Moderate) Excessive neuromuscular weakness may be exacerbated by coadministration of a botulinum toxin with skeletal muscle relaxants. Advise patients to seek medical assistance if they develop any unusual symptoms (including difficulty with swallowing, speaking, or breathing or walking), or if any existing symptom worsens during use of a botulinum toxin.
Carisoprodol: (Moderate) Excessive neuromuscular weakness may be exacerbated by coadministration of a botulinum toxin with skeletal muscle relaxants. Advise patients to seek medical assistance if they develop any unusual symptoms (including difficulty with swallowing, speaking, or breathing or walking), or if any existing symptom worsens during use of a botulinum toxin.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Moderate) The use of systemic antimuscarinic/anticholinergic agents following the administration of botulinum toxins may result in a potentiation of systemic anticholinergic effects (e.g., blurred vision, dry mouth, constipation, or urinary retention).
Chlorzoxazone: (Moderate) Excessive neuromuscular weakness may be exacerbated by coadministration of a botulinum toxin with skeletal muscle relaxants. Advise patients to seek medical assistance if they develop any unusual symptoms (including difficulty with swallowing, speaking, or breathing or walking), or if any existing symptom worsens during use of a botulinum toxin.
Cisatracurium: (Moderate) Use neuromuscular blockers and botulinum toxins concurrently with caution because the effect of the botulinum toxin may be potentiated. If coadministered, observe the patient closely.
Colistimethate, Colistin, Polymyxin E: (Moderate) The effects of botulinum toxin type A or botulinum toxin type B can be potentiated by drugs that interfere with neuromuscular transmission, such as colistimethate sodium. If these drugs are used in combination, monitor patients for increased adverse effects. Neuromuscular blockade may be associated with colistimethate sodium, and is more likely to occur in patients with renal dysfunction.
Colistin: (Moderate) The effects of botulinum toxin type A or botulinum toxin type B can be potentiated by drugs that interfere with neuromuscular transmission, such as colistimethate sodium. If these drugs are used in combination, monitor patients for increased adverse effects. Neuromuscular blockade may be associated with colistimethate sodium, and is more likely to occur in patients with renal dysfunction.
Cyclobenzaprine: (Moderate) Excessive neuromuscular weakness may be exacerbated by coadministration of a botulinum toxin with skeletal muscle relaxants. Advise patients to seek medical assistance if they develop any unusual symptoms (including difficulty with swallowing, speaking, or breathing or walking), or if any existing symptom worsens during use of a botulinum toxin.
Dantrolene: (Moderate) Excessive neuromuscular weakness may be exacerbated by coadministration of a botulinum toxin with skeletal muscle relaxants. Advise patients to seek medical assistance if they develop any unusual symptoms (including difficulty with swallowing, speaking, or breathing or walking), or if any existing symptom worsens during use of a botulinum toxin.
Dicyclomine: (Moderate) The use of systemic antimuscarinic/anticholinergic agents following the administration of botulinum toxins may result in a potentiation of systemic anticholinergic effects (e.g., blurred vision, dry mouth, constipation, or urinary retention).
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Moderate) The use of systemic antimuscarinic/anticholinergic agents following the administration of botulinum toxins may result in a potentiation of systemic anticholinergic effects (e.g., blurred vision, dry mouth, constipation, or urinary retention).
flavoxATE: (Moderate) The use of systemic antimuscarinic/anticholinergic agents following the administration of botulinum toxins may result in a potentiation of systemic anticholinergic effects (e.g., blurred vision, dry mouth, constipation, or urinary retention).
Gentamicin: (Moderate) The effects of botulinum toxin can be potentiated by systemic aminoglycosides or other drugs that interfere with neuromuscular transmission. Monitor aminoglycoside concentrations, and monitor for evidence of neurotoxicity including systemic neuromuscular blockade.
Glycopyrrolate: (Moderate) The use of systemic antimuscarinic/anticholinergic agents following the administration of botulinum toxins may result in a potentiation of systemic anticholinergic effects (e.g., blurred vision, dry mouth, constipation, or urinary retention).
Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) The use of systemic antimuscarinic/anticholinergic agents following the administration of botulinum toxins may result in a potentiation of systemic anticholinergic effects (e.g., blurred vision, dry mouth, constipation, or urinary retention).
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) The use of systemic antimuscarinic/anticholinergic agents following the administration of botulinum toxins may result in a potentiation of systemic anticholinergic effects (e.g., blurred vision, dry mouth, constipation, or urinary retention).
Hyoscyamine: (Moderate) The use of systemic antimuscarinic/anticholinergic agents following the administration of botulinum toxins may result in a potentiation of systemic anticholinergic effects (e.g., blurred vision, dry mouth, constipation, or urinary retention).
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Moderate) The use of systemic antimuscarinic/anticholinergic agents following the administration of botulinum toxins may result in a potentiation of systemic anticholinergic effects (e.g., blurred vision, dry mouth, constipation, or urinary retention).
Metaxalone: (Moderate) Excessive neuromuscular weakness may be exacerbated by coadministration of a botulinum toxin with skeletal muscle relaxants. Advise patients to seek medical assistance if they develop any unusual symptoms (including difficulty with swallowing, speaking, or breathing or walking), or if any existing symptom worsens during use of a botulinum toxin.
Methenamine; Sodium Acid Phosphate; Methylene Blue; Hyoscyamine: (Moderate) The use of systemic antimuscarinic/anticholinergic agents following the administration of botulinum toxins may result in a potentiation of systemic anticholinergic effects (e.g., blurred vision, dry mouth, constipation, or urinary retention).
Methscopolamine: (Moderate) The use of systemic antimuscarinic/anticholinergic agents following the administration of botulinum toxins may result in a potentiation of systemic anticholinergic effects (e.g., blurred vision, dry mouth, constipation, or urinary retention).
Neomycin: (Minor) The effects of botulinum toxin can be potentiated by systemic aminoglycosides or other drugs that interfere with neuromuscular transmission. However, neomycin oral and topical products are not well absorbed systemically; interactions are not expected.
Neostigmine; Glycopyrrolate: (Moderate) The use of systemic antimuscarinic/anticholinergic agents following the administration of botulinum toxins may result in a potentiation of systemic anticholinergic effects (e.g., blurred vision, dry mouth, constipation, or urinary retention).
Neuromuscular blockers: (Moderate) Use neuromuscular blockers and botulinum toxins concurrently with caution because the effect of the botulinum toxin may be potentiated. If coadministered, observe the patient closely.
Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Excessive neuromuscular weakness may be exacerbated by coadministration of a botulinum toxin with skeletal muscle relaxants. Advise patients to seek medical assistance if they develop any unusual symptoms (including difficulty with swallowing, speaking, or breathing or walking), or if any existing symptom worsens during use of a botulinum toxin.
oxyBUTYnin: (Moderate) The use of systemic antimuscarinic/anticholinergic agents following the administration of botulinum toxins may result in a potentiation of systemic anticholinergic effects (e.g., blurred vision, dry mouth, constipation, or urinary retention).
Paromomycin: (Minor) The effects of botulinum toxin can be potentiated by systemic aminoglycosides or other drugs that interfere with neuromuscular transmission. However, paromomycin is not well absorbed following oral administration; interactions are not expected.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Moderate) The use of systemic antimuscarinic/anticholinergic agents following the administration of botulinum toxins may result in a potentiation of systemic anticholinergic effects (e.g., blurred vision, dry mouth, constipation, or urinary retention).
Rocuronium: (Moderate) Use neuromuscular blockers and botulinum toxins concurrently with caution because the effect of the botulinum toxin may be potentiated. If coadministered, observe the patient closely.
Scopolamine: (Moderate) The use of systemic antimuscarinic/anticholinergic agents following the administration of botulinum toxins may result in a potentiation of systemic anticholinergic effects (e.g., blurred vision, dry mouth, constipation, or urinary retention).
Skeletal Muscle Relaxants: (Moderate) Excessive neuromuscular weakness may be exacerbated by coadministration of a botulinum toxin with skeletal muscle relaxants. Advise patients to seek medical assistance if they develop any unusual symptoms (including difficulty with swallowing, speaking, or breathing or walking), or if any existing symptom worsens during use of a botulinum toxin.
Solifenacin: (Moderate) Systemic anticholinergic effects (e.g., blurred vision) may be potentiated if antimuscarinics are administered after administration of botulinum toxins.
Streptomycin: (Moderate) The effects of botulinum toxin can be potentiated by systemic aminoglycosides or other drugs that interfere with neuromuscular transmission. Monitor aminoglycoside concentrations, and monitor for evidence of neurotoxicity including systemic neuromuscular blockade.
Succinylcholine: (Moderate) Use neuromuscular blockers and botulinum toxins concurrently with caution because the effect of the botulinum toxin may be potentiated. If coadministered, observe the patient closely.
Tobramycin: (Moderate) The effects of botulinum toxin can be potentiated by systemic aminoglycosides or other drugs that interfere with neuromuscular transmission. Monitor aminoglycoside concentrations, and monitor for evidence of neurotoxicity including systemic neuromuscular blockade.
Trihexyphenidyl: (Moderate) The use of systemic antimuscarinic/anticholinergic agents following the administration of botulinum toxins may result in a potentiation of systemic anticholinergic effects (e.g., blurred vision, dry mouth, constipation, or urinary retention).
Trospium: (Moderate) Systemic anticholinergic effects (e.g., blurred vision) may be potentiated if antimuscarinics are administered after administration of botulinum toxins.
Vecuronium: (Moderate) Use neuromuscular blockers and botulinum toxins concurrently with caution because the effect of the botulinum toxin may be potentiated. If coadministered, observe the patient closely.
Xanomeline; Trospium: (Moderate) Systemic anticholinergic effects (e.g., blurred vision) may be potentiated if antimuscarinics are administered after administration of botulinum toxins.


Adverse Reaction
antibody formation


Formation of neutralizing antibodies to abobotulinumtoxinA may reduce the effectiveness of the toxin by inactivating the biological activity of the toxin. The critical factors for neutralizing antibody formation have not been well characterized. The results from some studies suggest that injections at more frequent intervals or at higher doses may lead to greater incidence of antibody formation. In clinical trials for cervical dystonia, about 3% of patients developed binding or neutralizing antibodies to abobotulinumtoxinA. In clinical trials for glabellar lines, 3 subjects (0.2%) tested positive for binding antibodies after treatment; however, none tested positive for neutralizing antibodies. In adults with upper and lower limb spasticity, 3.6% and 0.2% developed neutralizing antibodies after treatment, respectively. In pediatric trials for upper and lower limb spasticity, approximately 2% of patients developed neutralizing antibodies after treatment. In both pediatric and adult trials for spasticity, some patients continued to experience clinical benefit in the presence of binding and neutralizing antibodies.


arthralgia, asthenia, back pain, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, myasthenia, paresis, weakness


Asthenia (1% to 2%) and generalized muscle weakness may occur due to distant spread of abobotulinumtoxinA from the injection area. Musculoskeletal pain (7%), muscular weakness/myasthenia (16%), and muscle atrophy (1%) were reported in adult patients with cervical dystonia during clinical trials. Muscular weakness and facial paresis were dose-related; muscular weakness occurred in 11% of those receiving a total dose of 250 units compared to 56% of those receiving a total dose of 1,000 units, while paresis occurred in 5% of those receiving 250 units and 11% of those receiving 1,000 units. Muscular weakness (2% to 7%), extremity pain (0% to 6%), back pain (1% to 2%), and arthralgia (2% to 4%) were reported in adults with upper or lower limb spasticity during clinical trials. In the treatment of lower limb spasticity, muscular weakness was reported more frequently in women (10%) treated with 1,500 units of abobotulinumtoxinA compared to men (5%). Extremity pain (0% to 7%), muscular weakness (1% to 6%), and myalgia (less than 3%) were reported during pediatric trials for limb spasticity. Amyotrophy and muscle atrophy have been reported with postmarketing use.


constipation, diarrhea, dysphagia, nausea, xerostomia


Treatment with abobotulinumtoxinA can result in dysphagia. In most cases, swallowing difficulties are a consequence of weakening muscles in the area of injection that are involved in swallowing; however, it may also occur due to distant spread of abobotulinumtoxinA from the injection area. Dysphagia can occur within hours to weeks of injection and may persist for several weeks. A feeding tube may be required to maintain adequate hydration and nutrition. Dysphagia (15%) and xerostomia (13%) were reported in adult patients with cervical dystonia during clinical trials. Both were dose-related, occurring 21% of those receiving a total dose of 250 units and 39% of those receiving a total dose of 1,000 units. Limiting the dose of abobotulinumtoxinA injected into the sternocleidomastoid muscle may reduce the occurrence of dysphagia. Nausea (2%) was reported during clinical trials for glabellar lines. Dysphagia (0.5%), diarrhea (1% to 2%), and constipation (0% to 2%) were reported during clinical trials for upper or lower limb spasticity in adults, while nausea (0% to 3%) was reported in pediatric trials.


depression, dizziness, dysarthria, headache, hypertonia, hypoesthesia, insomnia, seizures, syncope, vertigo


Headache (11%) and dizziness (3.5%) were reported in adult patients with cervical dystonia during clinical trials. Headache (9%) was also reported during trials for glabellar lines. Headache (0% to 3%), seizures (0% to 2%), syncope (1% to 2%), hypoesthesia (0% to 2%), insomnia (0% to 2%), depression (2% to 3%), gait disturbance (0.5%), and hypertonia (0.5%) were reported during adult clinical trials for upper or lower limb spasticity. Falls (2% to 9%), injury (2%), and contusion (1% to 2%) were also reported during trials for spasticity; falls were more frequent in geriatric patients. In pediatric spasticity trials, seizures (0% to 7%) and headache (0% to 6%) were reported. Dysarthria may occur due to distant spread of the drug from the area of injection to produce symptoms consistent with botulinum toxic effects. Vertigo and hypoesthesia have been reported during postmarketing experience with abobotulinumtoxinA.


infection, influenza, pharyngitis, sinusitis


Nasopharyngitis (10%), upper respiratory tract infection (3%), sinusitis (2%), bronchitis (2% to 3%), influenza or influenza-like illness (0% to 3%), and infection unspecified (1% to 2%) were reported during adult clinical trials of abobotulinumtoxinA. Upper respiratory tract infection (7% to 11%), influenza or influenza-like illness (3% or less), pharyngitis (6% to 10%), nasopharyngitis (9% to 16%), and bronchitis (0% to 8%) were reported during pediatric trials for limb spasticity.


contact dermatitis, erythema, fatigue, fever, injection site reaction, peripheral edema


An injection site reaction including discomfort (2% to 13%), pain (5% or less), bruising (less than 3%), hemorrhage, numbness, erythema, hematoma, tenderness, tingling, itching, eczema (less than 3%), rash (less than 3%), stinging, warmth, irritation, tightness, and/or swelling (3% or less) occurs commonly with abobotulinumtoxinA administration. General disorders including fatigue (1% to 12%), sensation of heaviness (0.3%), contact dermatitis (2% to 3%), and peripheral edema (0% to 2%) have also been reported during clinical trials. Fatigue (less than 3%) and fever (7% to 12%) were reported during pediatric trials. Burning sensation, erythema, and excessive granulation tissue have been reported with postmarketing use.


cough, dysphonia


Dysphonia, a dose-related reaction, was reported in 6% of adult abobotulinumtoxinA-treated patients during placebo-controlled trials, likely due to distant spread of the drug from the injection area. Dysphonia was not observed in patients receiving a 250 unit dose; in those that received a 1,000 unit dose, the incidence was 28%. Pharyngolaryngeal pain (2% to 3%) and cough (1% to 3%) were also reported in adult abobotulinumtoxinA-treated patients during clinical trials. In pediatric trials, cough was reported in 7% to 10% of patients.


blurred vision, diplopia, edema, ocular irritation, ocular pain, ocular pruritus, photophobia, ptosis, visual impairment, xerophthalmia


Xerophthalmia has been reported with the use of abobotulinumtoxinA in the treatment of glabellar lines. Reduced tear production, reduced blinking, and corneal disorders may occur with the use of botulinum toxins. Consider referring the patient to an ophthalmologist if symptoms of dry eye (e.g., xerophthalmia, ocular irritation, photophobia, visual impairment) persist. Eye disorders (7%) consisting of blurred vision, diplopia, reduced visual acuity, accommodation disorder, ocular pain, eyelid disorder, xerophthalmia, and ocular pruritus were commonly reported in adult patients receiving abobotulinumtoxinA for cervical dystonia. Eye disorders were dose-related, occurring in 17% of patients receiving a total dose of 1,000 units, compared to 0% of those receiving 250 units. Eyelid edema (2%) and eyelid ptosis (2%) were reported in the treatment of glabellar lines. In general, eyelid ptosis was mild to moderate in severity and resolved over several weeks. Incidence did not increase in long-term safety studies with multiple re-treatments at intervals of 3 months or more. Adverse ocular effects such as diplopia, blurred vision, and ptosis may be due to distant spread of the drug from the injection area. Photophobia has been reported during postmarketing use of abobotulinumtoxinA.


hematuria, urinary incontinence


Hematuria was reported in 2% of adult patients receiving abobotulinumtoxinA during clinical trials for glabellar lines. Distant spread of botulinum toxic effects may cause urinary incontinence hours to weeks after injection.


distant spread of toxin effects, dyspnea, respiratory arrest


Postmarketing reports indicate that the distant spread of toxin effects may occur with the use of botulinum toxin products. These effects may include asthenia, generalized muscle weakness, diplopia, blurred vision, ptosis, dysphagia, dysphonia, dysarthria, urinary incontinence, and breathing difficulties. Such symptoms have been reported hours to weeks after injection and at doses comparable to or lower than the maximum recommended dose. Swallowing and breathing difficulties can be fatal. Risk of symptoms is greatest in children treated for spasticity but symptoms may also occur in adults treated for spasticity and other conditions, particularly if they have underlying conditions that would predispose them to these symptoms. Treatment of cervical dystonia with botulinum toxin may weaken neck muscles that serve as accessory muscles for ventilation. This may result in a loss of critical breathing capacity in patients with respiratory disorders who have become dependent upon these accessory muscles. There have been postmarketing reports of respiratory arrest. Breathing difficulties, mainly consisting of dyspnea, occurred in approximately 3% of abobotulinumtoxinA-treated patients compared to 1% of placebo-treated patients in clinical trials. Dyspnea was generally mild and occurred at a median of 1 week after the last dose of abobotulinumtoxinA with a median duration of approximately 3 weeks.


anaphylactoid reactions, serum sickness, urticaria


Serious hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis/anaphylactoid reactions, serum sickness, urticaria, soft tissue edema, and dyspnea have been reported with abobotulinumtoxinA. If a serious hypersensitivity reaction occurs, discontinue the drug and institute appropriate medical treatment immediately.


elevated hepatic enzymes, hyperglycemia, hypertension, hypertriglyceridemia


Hypertension (1% to 2%), elevated hepatic enzymes (increased alanine aminotransferase, 0% to 2%), and hypertriglyceridemia (1% to 2%) were reported in adult trials for limb spasticity. Patients treated with abobotulinumtoxinA exhibited a small increase from baseline (0.23 mol/L) in mean blood glucose relative to placebo-treated patients during clinical trials for cervical dystonia. This level of hyperglycemia was not clinically significant but could be a factor in patients whose diabetes is difficult to control. ECG measurements, recorded in a limited number of patients in an open-label trial with no placebo or control, showed a statistically significant reduction in heart rate compared to baseline. The reduction averaged 3 beats per minute and was observed 30 minutes after injection.


infertility


In animal studies, abobotulinumtoxinA caused infertility and adverse effects on mating behavior. There are no data on the impact of abobotulinumtoxinA on human fertility.


Description

AbobotulinumtoxinA is a botulinum toxin type A-hemagglutinin complex approved for the treatment of cervical dystonia and glabellar lines in adults, and for the treatment of spasticity in both pediatric and adult patients. Like other botulinum toxin type A formulations, abobotulinumtoxinA is an intramuscular toxin produced from fermentation of Clostridium botulinum type A. Manufacturers of licensed botulinum toxin products are required to have a boxed warning regarding the risk of adverse effects of the toxin spread beyond the injection site. In addition, manufacturers must develop and implement a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS), which consists of a Communication Plan to provide information regarding the risk for distant spread of botulinum toxin effects after local injection, information explaining that botulinum toxin products are not interchangeable, and a MedGuide. Outside the US, abobotulinumtoxinA has been used to treat a variety of conditions. Study with abobotulinumtoxinA is ongoing for treatment of blepharospasm, pain syndromes, overactive bladder, migraine, stroke disability, levodopa-induced dyskinesias, anal fissure, chronic plantar fascitis, torticollis, and other conditions of spasticity in both adults and children.

Mechanism Of Action

AbobotulinumtoxinA blocks neuromuscular conduction by binding to receptor sites on motor nerve terminals, entering nerve terminals, and inhibiting the release of acetylcholine. Inhibition occurs as the neurotoxin cleaves a protein (SNAP-25) integral to the successful docking and release of acetylcholine from vesicles situated within nerve endings. After intramuscular injection of a therapeutic dose, abobotulinumtoxinA produces partial chemical denervation of the muscle resulting in a localized reduction in muscle activity. Some evidence suggests reinnervation of the muscle may occur, thereby slowly reversing muscle denervation produced by the neurotoxin. A reduction in sialorrhea may occur by blocking the liberation of acetylcholine in autonomic nerve terminals in the parotid and submandibular glands. There is no evidence of axonal sprouting or consecutive innervation in autonomic nerve fibers in sialorrhea studies.

Pharmacokinetics

AbobotulinumtoxinA is administered by local intramuscular injection.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Intramuscular Route

When used locally at the recommended intramuscular (IM) dose, measurable concentrations of abobotulinumtoxinA are not expected to be present in the peripheral blood. The recommended quantities of neurotoxin administered at each treatment session are not expected to result in systemic, overt distant clinical effects (i.e., muscle weakness) in patients without other neuromuscular dysfunction. However, sub-clinical systemic effects have been shown by single-fiber electromyography after IM doses of botulinum toxins appropriate to produce clinically observable local muscle weakness. The median onset is 3 days and duration is 88 days of abobotulinumtoxinA effect, when used to treat glabellar lines ; the onset is 7.6 (+/- 3.5) days with a duration of 77 (+/- 11.2) days when used to treat cervical dystonia.

Administration

For storage information, see specific product information within How Supplied section.

Injectable Administration


Visually inspect parenteral products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.
Units of biological activity of AbobotulinumtoxinA cannot be compared or converted to other botulinum toxin products.
After administration, previously sedentary patients who will resume normal activities should do so gradually.
 
Reconstitution
Each indication has a recommended concentration.
Use preservative-free 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection as a diluent. Gently swirl to dissolve.
To yield a final concentration of 50 units/0.1 mL:
Reconstitute the 300 unit vial with 0.6 mL diluent, or
Reconstitute the 500 unit vial with 1 mL of diluent.
To yield a final concentration of 25 units/0.1 mL:
Reconstitute the 500 unit vial with 2 mL of diluent.
To yield a final concentration of 20 units/0.1 mL:
Reconstitute the 300 unit vial with 1.5 mL of diluent, or
Reconstitute the 500 unit vial with 2.5 mL of diluent.
To yield a final concentration of 12 units/0.1 mL:
Reconstitute the 300 unit vial with 2.5 mL of diluent.
To yield a final concentration of 10 units/0.1 mL:
Reconstitute the 300 unit vial with 3 mL of diluent, or
Reconstitute the 500 unit vial with 5 mL of diluent. When using 5 mL of diluent for a 500 unit vial, no more than 2.5 mL diluent should be introduced into vial. First, reconstitute the 500 unit vial with 2.5 mL of diluent, gently mix, and set aside. Then, withdraw 2.5 mL of diluent into a 5 mL syringe. Next, draw up the abobotulinumtoxinA solution from the reconstituted vial into that syringe without inverting and mix gently. Use immediately.
Storage: Once reconstituted, unused drug may be stored refrigerated (2 to 8 degrees C [36 to 46 degrees F]) and protected from light in the original container for up to 24 hours until the time of use. If reconstituted in a syringe, use immediately. Use only for 1 injection session and for only 1 patient; discard any unused portion.


Intramuscular Administration

Cervical dystonia:
Recommended concentration: 25 or 50 units/0.1 mL.
Localization of the active muscles with electromyographic guidance and/or ultrasound may be helpful.
 
Glabellar facial wrinkles:
Recommended concentration: 12 or 20 units/0.1 mL.
Injection technique for glabellar facial wrinkles:
Identify the lateral corrugator and vertical procerus muscles by palpating the tensed muscle mass while having the patient frown.
To inject abobotulinumtoxinA, advance the needle through the skin into the underlying muscle while applying finger pressure on the superior medial orbital rim.
Using an appropriate size needle, inject 10 units of abobotulinumtoxinA into each of 5 sites (total dose 50 units): 2 in each corrugator muscle, and 1 in the procerus muscle.
In order to reduce the complication of ptosis:
Avoid injection near the levator palpebrae superiosis, particularly in patients with larger brow depressor complexes.
Place medial corrugator injections at least 1 centimeter above the bony supraorbital ridge.
Ensure doses used are accurate and keep injected volume to a minimum.
Do not inject toxin closer than 1 centimeter above the central eyebrow.
The risk of ptosis may also be mitigated by careful examination of the upper lid for separation or weakness of the levator palpebrae muscle, identification of lash ptosis, and evaluation of lid excursion while manually depressing the frontalis to assess compensation.
 
Spasticity in adult patients:
Recommended concentration: 10 or 20 units/0.1 mL.
In general, do not administer more than 1 mL in any single injection site.
Localization of the involved muscles with electromyographic guidance, electrical stimulation, or ultrasound is recommended.
 
Spasticity in pediatric patients:
Recommended concentration: 20 or 50 units/0.1 mL.
Do not administer more than 0.5 mL in any single injection site.
Localization of the involved muscles with electromyographic guidance, electrical stimulation, or ultrasound is recommended.


Subcutaneous Administration

Reconstitution and administration for blepharospasm and hemifacial spasm
NOTE: AbobotulinumtoxinA is not FDA-approved for this type of administration.
Reconstitute 500 unit vial with 2.5 mL of diluent to yield a solution containing 200 units/mL.
Local subcutaneous injection: A sterile 23 or 25 gauge needle should be used for administration. For injections into the upper lid, the needle should be directed away from its center to avoid the levator muscle. AbobotulinumtoxinA is administered by subcutaneous injection medially and laterally into the junction between the preseptal and orbital parts of both the upper and lower orbicularis oculi muscles of the eyes.


Other Injectable Administration

Intradermal Administration
Reconstitution and administration for axillary hyperhidrosis (excessive sweating)
NOTE: AbobotulinumtoxinA is not FDA-approved for this type of administration.
Reconstitute 500 unit vial with 2.5 mL of diluent to yield a solution containing 200 units/mL.
Local intradermal injection: The area to be injected should be determined beforehand using the iodine-starch test. Both axillae should be cleaned and disinfected. Intradermal injections at 10 sites, each site receiving 10 units, are then administered.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

Maximum dosage is not well defined; dosage is dependent upon treatment effect and indication.

Geriatric

Maximum dosage is not well defined; dosage is dependent upon treatment effect and indication.

Adolescents

16 units/kg IM (Max: 640 units) per treatment session for upper limb spasticity; 15 units/kg IM for unilateral and 30 units/kg IM for bilateral (Max: 1,000 units) per treatment session for lower limb spasticity.

Children

2 to 12 years: 16 units/kg IM (Max: 640 units) per treatment session for upper limb spasticity; 15 units/kg IM for unilateral and 30 units/kg IM for bilateral (Max: 1,000 units) per treatment session for lower limb spasticity.
1 to 2 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy not established.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy not established.

Dosage Forms

Dysport 300unit Powder for Injection

Dysport 300unit Powder for Injection

Dysport 500unit Powder for Injection

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

Renal Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

© 2026 Elsevier