=== aMILoride/hydroCHLOROthiazide — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 863)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Amiloride and hydrochlorothiazide are diuretics used together to treat hypertension and edema.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 10 mg/day PO amiloride and 100 mg/day PO hydrochlorothiazide.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): angina, bradycardia, fatigue, hyperkalemia, orthostatic hypotension, palpitations, sinus tachycardia, hypercalcemia, hypochloremia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, hyponatremia, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia, leukopenia, neutropenia, pancytopenia, thrombocytopenia, gi bleeding, hiccups, pancreatitis, peptic ulcer, pyrosis (heartburn), sialadenitis, confusion, depression, dizziness, drowsiness, encephalopathy

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in individuals with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. According to the manufacturer, amiloride; hydrochlorothiazide is specifically contraindicated in patients with sulfonamide hypersensitivity.

AMILORIDE/HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Moduretic

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of hypertension, peripheral edema, or edema associated with heart failure in patients who develop hypokalemia when thiazides (or other kaliuretic diuretics) are used alone, or in patients with significant risks for hypokalemia (e.g., digitalized, cardiac arrhythmias)

Oral dosage
Adults


5 mg amiloride; 50 mg hydrochlorothiazide PO once daily. May increase to 10 mg amiloride;100 mg hydrochlorothiazide if necessary; however, patients usually do not require hydrochlorothiazide doses more than 50 mg when combined with other antihypertensive agents. The daily dose is usually given as a single dose but may be given in divided doses. Once an initial diuresis has been achieved, dosage adjustment may be needed. Maintenance therapy may be on an intermittent basis. Heart failure guidelines recommend adding a diuretic to standard therapy for reduced ejection fraction heart failure (HFrEF) patients with volume overload. A thiazide diuretic is recommended in addition to standard therapy for hypertensive patients with HFrEF and mild fluid retention. Diuretics should also be used in preserved ejection fraction heart failure (HFpEF).


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in individuals with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. According to the manufacturer, amiloride; hydrochlorothiazide is specifically contraindicated in patients with sulfonamide hypersensitivity. However, while thiazide diuretics, such as hydrochlorothiazide, are sulfonamide derivatives, sulfonamide cross-sensitivity has rarely been documented. Sulfonamide antibiotics contain the N4-aromatic amine (arylamine) and the N1-aromatic heterocyclic ring which are believed to be involved in the development of IgE-hypersensitivity reactions; thiazide diuretics, such as hydrochlorothiazide, do not contain either. A relationship between sulfonamide hypersensitivity and allergic reactions with non-arylamine sulfonamide derivatives has not been definitively established and remains controversial. It has been theorized that individuals with a documented sulfonamide allergy are considered may have a predisposition for the development of allergic drug reactions. Sensitivity reactions may occur in patients with or without a history of allergy or bronchial asthma.

hypercalcemia, hyperkalemia, hypochloremia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, hyponatremia, increased risk for hyperkalemia, vomiting


Amiloride; hydrochlorothiazide is contraindicated in individuals with hyperkalemia (serum potassium more than 5.5 mEq/L) or in individuals taking concomitant potassium supplementation, potassium-containing salt substitutes or drugs that conserve potassium (e.g., spironolactone, triamterene, cyclosporine, tacrolimus, angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, or angiotensin II receptor (ARB) antagonists). Amiloride can cause hyperkalemia. Individuals at increased risk for hyperkalemia include those with diabetes (with or without recognized renal insufficiency), impaired renal function, or who are elderly. Monitor serum potassium concentration upon initiation, at dose adjustments, and during any illness that could impact renal function while on amiloride; hydrochlorothiazide therapy. If hyperkalemia occurs, discontinue amiloride; hydrochlorothiazide immediately and treat the hyperkalemia. Hydrochlorothiazide may cause hypokalemia; however, this may be prevented by amiloride.  Correct any serum electrolyte imbalance, such as hyperkalemia, hypochloremia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, hyponatremia and hypercalcemia, prior to starting amiloride; hydrochlorothiazide therapy. Amiloride may cause hyponatremia or hypochloremia. In addition to hypokalemia, thiazide diuretics, including hydrochlorothiazide, are associated with reductions in sodium, chloride, and magnesium concentrations. Individuals who are vomiting excessively or receiving parenteral fluids may be at a higher risk for electrolyte imbalances. Dilutional hyponatremia may occur in individuals with edema exposed to hot weather. Hydrochlorothiazide can also increase serum calcium concentrations by decreasing excretion of urinary calcium. Since hydrochlorothiazide-related hypercalcemia may mask hyperparathyroidism, discontinue amiloride; hydrochlorothiazide prior to carrying out tests for parathyroid function. Periodically monitor serum electrolyte concentrations and fluid balance during amiloride; hydrochlorothiazide therapy.


anuria, diabetes mellitus, diabetic nephropathy, renal disease, renal failure, renal impairment


Amiloride; hydrochlorothiazide is contraindicated in individuals with anuria, acute or chronic renal impairment, renal failure, and evidence of diabetic nephropathy and should be used with caution in renal disease. Drug-induced hypovolemia can precipitate azotemia or acute kidney injury in individuals with renal disease or impairment. Use caution in individuals with diabetes mellitus or evidence of renal impairment, such as a BUN greater than 30 mg/dL or serum creatinine (SCr) greater than 1.5 mg/dL, and frequently monitor serum electrolytes, SCr, and BUN concentrations. Individuals with chronic kidney disease, heart failure, or volume depletion may have a higher risk of developing acute renal injury. The risk of hyperkalemia is higher in individuals with diabetes mellitus and/or renal impairment. Carefully monitor blood and/or urine glucose concentrations, serum potassium and renal function in individuals with diabetes mellitus who are receiving amiloride; hydrochlorothiazide. Hyperglycemia, impaired glucose tolerance, and glycosuria can occur with hydrochlorothiazide therapy; adjust dose of antidiabetic drugs as necessary. Discontinue amiloride; hydrochlorothiazide at least 3 days prior to glucose tolerance testing. Guidelines recommend avoiding use of amiloride when the GFR is less than 45 mL/minute/1.73 m2. Additionally, guidelines recommend use of loop diuretics for the treatment of hypertension in individuals with moderate-to-severe chronic kidney disease (GFR less than 30 mL/minute/1.73 m2), as thiazide diuretics are generally considered to be ineffective in this setting.


sympathectomy


The antihypertensive effects of thiazides may be enhanced in individuals predisposed for orthostatic hypotension, including the post-sympathectomy patient.


cardiopulmonary disease


Use amiloride; hydrochlorothiazide with caution in severely ill individuals, such as those with cardiopulmonary disease or poorly controlled diabetes, who may have a higher risk of developing metabolic or respiratory acidosis. If amiloride; hydrochlorothiazide is given to these individuals, frequently monitor the acid-base balance. Rapid increases in serum potassium concentrations may occur with the development of acidosis.


hepatic disease, metabolic alkalosis


Use amiloride; hydrochlorothiazide with caution in individuals with resistant edema, hepatic cirrhosis with ascites and metabolic alkalosis, or pre-existing severe hepatic disease. Increases in BUN may occur with amiloride; hydrochlorothiazide therapy and the risk may be higher with vigorous diuresis or in individuals with hepatic cirrhosis with ascites and metabolic alkalosis, or resistant edema. Amiloride; hydrochlorothiazide-induced fluid shifts and fluctuations in serum electrolyte concentrations may precipitate hepatic coma in susceptible individuals, such as those with progressive hepatic disease or hepatic failure. Hypokalemia may develop with hydrochlorothiazide therapy, especially with rapid diuresis, severe hepatic cirrhosis, or after prolonged therapy; however, coadministration with amiloride usually prevents the reduction in serum potassium concentrations. Monitor serum electrolytes and BUN concentrations during amiloride; hydrochlorothiazide therapy.


gout, hyperuricemia


Use amiloride; hydrochlorothiazide with caution in individuals with a history of gout or hyperuricemia. Thiazide diuretics, such as hydrochlorothiazide, have been reported to reduce the clearance of uric acid and may exacerbate hyperuricemia and precipitate gout. Guidelines recommend monitoring individuals taking hydrochlorothiazide with a history of acute gout who are not currently taking uric acid lowering therapy.


systemic lupus erythematosus


Use amiloride; hydrochlorothiazide with caution in individuals with a history of systemic lupus erythematosus. Hydrochlorothiazide may exacerbate or activate systemic lupus erythematosus.


glaucoma, narrow iridocorneal angles


Use amiloride; hydrochlorothiazide with caution in individuals with narrow iridocorneal angles or glaucoma. Sulfonamide or sulfonamide-derivative drug therapies may cause an idiosyncratic reaction resulting in acute closed-angle glaucoma and increased intraocular pressure with or without noticeable acute myopic shift and/or choroidal effusions. Risk factors for developing acute angle-closure glaucoma may include a history of sulfonamide hypersensitivity or penicillin hypersensitivity. If symptoms occur, discontinue amiloride; hydrochlorothiazide as soon as possible. Prompt medical or surgical treatments may be necessary if the intraocular pressure remains uncontrolled.


geriatric


Greater sensitivity to the usual dosage of amiloride; hydrochlorothiazide may occur in some older adults, and care should be taken in initial dose selection for the geriatric adult. In general, initial dose should be at the low end of the dosage range to reflect the greater frequency of decreased hepatic, renal, or cardiac function, and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy. Additionally, elderly adults have a higher risk of developing hyperkalemia with amiloride therapy. Thiazides, like hydrochlorothiazide, may worsen dilutional hyponatremia, and an increased risk of falls has been reported for older adult individuals receiving thiazide diuretics. According to the Beers Criteria, diuretics are considered potentially inappropriate medications (PIMs) in geriatric patients and should be used with caution due to the potential for causing or exacerbating SIADH or hyponatremia. Sodium levels should be closely monitored when starting or changing dosages of diuretics in older adults. In addition, the Beers expert panel recommends that amiloride be avoided in geriatric patients with a creatinine clearance less than 30 mL/minute due to the potential for increased potassium and decreased sodium.


preeclampsia, pregnancy


There are no adequate and well-controlled human studies that evaluate the use of amiloride; hydrochlorothiazide in pregnancy. In studies involving pregnant rabbits and mice, no evidence of teratogenicity was observed with amiloride; hydrochlorothiazide at doses of 25 times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD). In a perinatal and postnatal study involving rats, reductions in maternal body weight gain (during and after gestation) and body weights of live pups (birth and weaning) were observed with amiloride; hydrochlorothiazide doses up to 25 times the MRHD. Amiloride has been found to cross the placenta in modest amounts. A reduction in pup growth and survival occurred with doses of amiloride at 5 times the MRHD or greater. There have been rare reports of fetal or neonatal jaundice, thrombocytopenia, and electrolyte imbalance associated with thiazide use during pregnancy. Diuretics are generally considered second-line agents for the treatment of hypertension during pregnancy. Theoretically, there is concern about the potential for diuretics to cause intravascular volume depletion, which could cause fetal growth restriction or oligohydramnios. However, this concern has not been supported by the literature. Closely monitor the pregnant person's blood pressure, heart rate, and volume status and adjust their pharmacologic treatment as necessary to avoid hypotension and placental hypoperfusion. Diuretics should be generally avoided in preeclampsia, as plasma volume is reduced.


breast-feeding


Use amiloride; hydrochlorothiazide with caution during breast-feeding. According to the manufacturer, a decision should be made whether to discontinue breast-feeding or to discontinue amiloride; hydrochlorothiazide. It is not known whether amiloride is excreted in human milk; however, the molecular weight of the drug is low enough for excretion into breast-milk to occur. Hydrochlorothiazide is present in human milk in small amounts, with a relative infant dose (RID) of 1.68%. This limited hydrochlorothiazide exposure is not expected to cause adverse effects in the breastfed child. High hydrochlorothiazide dosages (100 mg to 150 mg/day) have been used to suppress lactation; however, lactation suppression has not been reported with doses of 50 mg or less.  


Pregnancy And Lactation


Use amiloride; hydrochlorothiazide with caution during breast-feeding. According to the manufacturer, a decision should be made whether to discontinue breast-feeding or to discontinue amiloride; hydrochlorothiazide. It is not known whether amiloride is excreted in human milk; however, the molecular weight of the drug is low enough for excretion into breast-milk to occur. Hydrochlorothiazide is present in human milk in small amounts, with a relative infant dose (RID) of 1.68%. This limited hydrochlorothiazide exposure is not expected to cause adverse effects in the breastfed child. High hydrochlorothiazide dosages (100 mg to 150 mg/day) have been used to suppress lactation; however, lactation suppression has not been reported with doses of 50 mg or less.  


Interactions

Abacavir; Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Drugs that are actively secreted via cationic tubular secretion, such as amiloride, should be co-administered with caution with lamivudine since they could increase lamivudine plasma concentrations, and therefore lamivudine associated adverse reactions, via potential competition for renal cationic secretion.
Abacavir; lamiVUDine, 3TC: (Moderate) Drugs that are actively secreted via cationic tubular secretion, such as amiloride, should be co-administered with caution with lamivudine since they could increase lamivudine plasma concentrations, and therefore lamivudine associated adverse reactions, via potential competition for renal cationic secretion.
Abacavir; lamiVUDine, 3TC; Zidovudine, ZDV: (Moderate) Drugs that are actively secreted via cationic tubular secretion, such as amiloride, should be co-administered with caution with lamivudine since they could increase lamivudine plasma concentrations, and therefore lamivudine associated adverse reactions, via potential competition for renal cationic secretion.
Acarbose: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal insufficiency in patients receiving diuretics, secondary to effects on renal blood flow. Salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin production, which causes salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. Coadministration may cause hyperkalemia.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal insufficiency in patients receiving diuretics, secondary to effects on renal blood flow. Salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin production, which causes salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. Coadministration may cause hyperkalemia.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal insufficiency in patients receiving diuretics, secondary to effects on renal blood flow. Salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin production, which causes salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. Coadministration may cause hyperkalemia.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal insufficiency in patients receiving diuretics, secondary to effects on renal blood flow. Salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin production, which causes salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. Coadministration may cause hyperkalemia.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Opiate agonists may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure has been reported in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure has been reported in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with codeine. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone. (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and codeine; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure has been reported in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure has been reported in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Acetaminophen; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure has been reported in some patients.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with hydrocodone. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone. (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and hydrocodone; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
Acetaminophen; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics. (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with oxycodone. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone. (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and oxycodone; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
Acetaminophen; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure has been reported in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
acetaZOLAMIDE: (Moderate) Acetazolamide promotes electrolyte excretion including hydrogen ions, sodium, and potassium. It can enhance the sodium depleting effects of other diuretics when used concurrently. Pre-existing hypokalemia and hyperuricemia can also be potentiated by carbonic anhydrase inhibitors. Monitor serum potassium to determine the need for potassium supplementation and alteration in drug therapy. (Moderate) Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors promote electrolyte excretion including hydrogen ions, sodium, and potassium. They can enhance the sodium depleting effects of other diuretics when used concurrently. Pre-existing hypokalemia and hyperuricemia can also be potentiated by carbonic anhydrase inhibitors. Monitor serum potassium to determine the need for potassium supplementation and alteration in drug therapy.
Aclidinium; Formoterol: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Adefovir: (Moderate) Adefovir is eliminated renally by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion. Coadministration of adefovir dipivoxil with drugs that reduce renal function or compete for active tubular secretion, such as amiloride, may decrease adefovir elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems, thereby increasing serum concentrations of adefovir and/or amiloride. Coadministration of these drugs has not been studied, but caution is warranted.
Albuterol: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Albuterol; Budesonide: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss. (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated. (Minor) The manufacturer of spironolactone lists corticosteroids as a potential drug that interacts with spironolactone. Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia, may occur. However, potassium-sparing diuretics such as spironolactone do not induce hypokalemia. In fact, hypokalemia is one of the indications for potassium-sparing diuretic therapy. Therefore, drugs that induce potassium loss, such as corticosteroids, could counter the hyperkalemic effects of potassium-sparing diuretics.
Alemtuzumab: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Alendronate; Cholecalciferol: (Moderate) Dose adjustment of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs may be necessary during coadministration with thiazide diuretics. Additionally, serum calcium concentrations should be monitored frequently. Monitor more frequently in patients with a history of hypercalcemia. Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by coadministration of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics are known to induce hypercalcemia by reducing the excretion of calcium in the urine.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when a thiazide diuretic is administered with alfentanil. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone. (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with alfentanil. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Aliskiren: (Moderate) Due to the risk of hyperkalemia, drugs that increase serum potassium concentration, such as potassium-sparing diuretics, should be used cautiously in patients taking aliskiren. Electrolytes should be routinely monitored in patients receiving aliskiren. Aliskiren can enhance the effects of diuretics on blood pressure if given concomitantly. This additive effect may be desirable, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly. Also, patients with hyponatremia or hypovolemia may become hypotensive and/or develop reversible renal insufficiency when given aliskiren and diuretics.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Due to the risk of hyperkalemia, drugs that increase serum potassium concentration, such as potassium-sparing diuretics, should be used cautiously in patients taking aliskiren. Electrolytes should be routinely monitored in patients receiving aliskiren. Aliskiren can enhance the effects of diuretics on blood pressure if given concomitantly. This additive effect may be desirable, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly. Also, patients with hyponatremia or hypovolemia may become hypotensive and/or develop reversible renal insufficiency when given aliskiren and diuretics.
Allopurinol: (Moderate) Monitor renal function and for signs and symptoms of hypersensitivity and skin rash during concomitant use of allopurinol and thiazide diuretics; reduce the allopurinol dose in persons with renal impairment and concomitant thiazide diuretic use. Concomitant use may increase the risk of severe skin rash and renal impairment may further increase the risk. Discontinue allopurinol at the first appearance of skin rash or other signs which may indicate a hypersensitivity when using these drugs concomitantly.
Alogliptin: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. Finally, both thiazides and sulfonylureas have been reported to cause photosensitivity reactions; concomitant use may increase the risk of photosensitivity.
Alogliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain drugs, such as thiazide diuretics, tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of glycemic control. The effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control appear to be dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, thiazide diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. Patients receiving metformin should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if any of these diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary in some patients. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. Finally, both thiazides and sulfonylureas have been reported to cause photosensitivity reactions; concomitant use may increase the risk of photosensitivity.
Alogliptin; Pioglitazone: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. Finally, both thiazides and sulfonylureas have been reported to cause photosensitivity reactions; concomitant use may increase the risk of photosensitivity.
Alpha-glucosidase Inhibitors: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Alprostadil: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as spironolactone or other potassium-sparing diuretics, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil. (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Ambrisentan: (Moderate) Although no specific interactions have been documented, ambrisentan has vasodilatory effects and may contribute additive hypotensive effects when given with other antihypertensive agents. Patients receiving ambrisentan in combination with other antihypertensive agents should be monitored for decreases in blood pressure.
Amifostine: (Major) Patients receiving antihypertensive agents should be closely monitored during amifostine infusions due to additive effects. If possible, patients should not take their antihypertensive medication 24 hours before receiving amifostine. Patients who can not stop their antihypertensive agents should not receive amifostine or be closely monitored during the infusion and, possibly, given lower doses.
Aminolevulinic Acid: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics may cause photosensitivity and may increase the photosensitization effects of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy. Prevention of photosensitivity includes adequate protection from sources of UV radiation (e.g., avoiding sun exposure and tanning booths) and the use of protective clothing and sunscreens on exposed skin.
Aminosalicylate sodium, Aminosalicylic acid: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal insufficiency in patients receiving diuretics, secondary to effects on renal blood flow. Salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin production, which causes salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. Coadministration may cause hyperkalemia.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Major) Amiloride should be used very cautiously with agents that have potential to induce hyperkalemia; serum potassium levels monitored when such agents are coadministered with amiloride. Simultaneous use of a potassium-sparing diuretic (e.g., amiloride) with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) can increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment (renal disease, elderly patients). These agents should be used with caution and serum potassium levels monitored when the substances are coadministered. The Beers Criteria recommends avoiding routine use of this combination in older adults; reserve this combination for patients with demonstrated hypokalemia while taking an ACE inhibitor. (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting benazepril, if possible, or start benazepril at the lower dose of 5 mg/day. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics. (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Major) Potassium-sparing diuretics, such as amiloride, should be used with caution in patients taking drugs that may increase serum potassium levels such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Concurrent use can cause hyperkalemia, especially in elderly patients or patients with impaired renal function. Coadministration may also result in increases in serum creatinine in heart failure patients.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Major) Potassium-sparing diuretics, such as amiloride, should be used with caution in patients taking drugs that may increase serum potassium levels such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Concurrent use can cause hyperkalemia, especially in elderly patients or patients with impaired renal function. Coadministration may also result in increases in serum creatinine in heart failure patients.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Potassium-sparing diuretics, such as amiloride, should be used with caution in patients taking drugs that may increase serum potassium levels such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Concurrent use can cause hyperkalemia, especially in elderly patients or patients with impaired renal function. Coadministration may also result in increases in serum creatinine in heart failure patients.
Amobarbital: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics. (Moderate) Concurrent use of amobarbital with antihypertensive agents may lead to hypotension. Monitor for decreases in blood pressure during times of coadministration.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Amphetamine: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like potassium-sparing diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine Salts: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like potassium-sparing diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like potassium-sparing diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
Amphotericin B lipid complex (ABLC): (Moderate) The risk of developing severe hypokalemia can be increased when amphotericin B is coadministered with thiazide diuretics. Monitoring serum potassium levels and cardiac function is advised, and potassium supplementation may be required.
Amphotericin B liposomal (LAmB): (Moderate) The risk of developing severe hypokalemia can be increased when amphotericin B is coadministered with thiazide diuretics. Monitoring serum potassium levels and cardiac function is advised, and potassium supplementation may be required.
Amphotericin B: (Moderate) The risk of developing severe hypokalemia can be increased when amphotericin B is coadministered with thiazide diuretics. Monitoring serum potassium levels and cardiac function is advised, and potassium supplementation may be required.
Angiotensin II receptor antagonists: (Major) Potassium-sparing diuretics, such as amiloride, should be used with caution in patients taking drugs that may increase serum potassium levels such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Concurrent use can cause hyperkalemia, especially in elderly patients or patients with impaired renal function. Coadministration may also result in increases in serum creatinine in heart failure patients.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors: (Major) Amiloride should be used very cautiously with agents that have potential to induce hyperkalemia; serum potassium levels monitored when such agents are coadministered with amiloride. Simultaneous use of a potassium-sparing diuretic (e.g., amiloride) with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) can increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment (renal disease, elderly patients). These agents should be used with caution and serum potassium levels monitored when the substances are coadministered. The Beers Criteria recommends avoiding routine use of this combination in older adults; reserve this combination for patients with demonstrated hypokalemia while taking an ACE inhibitor.
Anticholinergics: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Apomorphine: (Moderate) Use of potassium-sparing diuretics and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination. (Moderate) Use of thiazide diuretics and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Apraclonidine: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
Arformoterol: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and adjust amiloride dose accordingly as aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Arsenic Trioxide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of thiazide diuretics and arsenic trioxide should be done cautiously. Electrolyte abnormalities, such as hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia, may increase the risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes. (Moderate) Use caution when using arsenic trioxide with potassium-sparing diuretics. Electrolyte abnormalities, such as increased potassium, may increase the risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and potassium-sparing diuretic use. Potassium-sparing diuretics may antagonize the pressor effects and potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and thiazide diuretic use. Thiazide diuretics may antagonize the pressor effects and potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
Asenapine: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Aspirin, ASA: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal insufficiency in patients receiving diuretics, secondary to effects on renal blood flow. Salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin production, which causes salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. Coadministration may cause hyperkalemia.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal insufficiency in patients receiving diuretics, secondary to effects on renal blood flow. Salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin production, which causes salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. Coadministration may cause hyperkalemia.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal insufficiency in patients receiving diuretics, secondary to effects on renal blood flow. Salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin production, which causes salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. Coadministration may cause hyperkalemia.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal insufficiency in patients receiving diuretics, secondary to effects on renal blood flow. Salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin production, which causes salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. Coadministration may cause hyperkalemia.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with codeine. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone. (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and codeine; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic. (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal insufficiency in patients receiving diuretics, secondary to effects on renal blood flow. Salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin production, which causes salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. Coadministration may cause hyperkalemia.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal insufficiency in patients receiving diuretics, secondary to effects on renal blood flow. Salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin production, which causes salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. Coadministration may cause hyperkalemia.
Aspirin, ASA; Dipyridamole: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal insufficiency in patients receiving diuretics, secondary to effects on renal blood flow. Salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin production, which causes salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. Coadministration may cause hyperkalemia.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia. (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal insufficiency in patients receiving diuretics, secondary to effects on renal blood flow. Salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin production, which causes salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. Coadministration may cause hyperkalemia.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with oxycodone. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone. (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and oxycodone; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic. (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal insufficiency in patients receiving diuretics, secondary to effects on renal blood flow. Salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin production, which causes salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. Coadministration may cause hyperkalemia.
Atracurium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and thiazide diuretics may prolong neuromuscular blockade, possibly due to hypokalemia or alterations in potassium concentrations across the end-plate membrane.
Atropine: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Azelastine; Fluticasone: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss. (Minor) The manufacturer of spironolactone lists corticosteroids as a potential drug that interacts with spironolactone. Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia, may occur. However, potassium-sparing diuretics such as spironolactone do not induce hypokalemia. In fact, hypokalemia is one of the indications for potassium-sparing diuretic therapy. Therefore, drugs that induce potassium loss, such as corticosteroids, could counter the hyperkalemic effects of potassium-sparing diuretics.
Azilsartan: (Major) Potassium-sparing diuretics, such as amiloride, should be used with caution in patients taking drugs that may increase serum potassium levels such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Concurrent use can cause hyperkalemia, especially in elderly patients or patients with impaired renal function. Coadministration may also result in increases in serum creatinine in heart failure patients.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Major) Potassium-sparing diuretics, such as amiloride, should be used with caution in patients taking drugs that may increase serum potassium levels such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Concurrent use can cause hyperkalemia, especially in elderly patients or patients with impaired renal function. Coadministration may also result in increases in serum creatinine in heart failure patients.
Baclofen: (Moderate) Baclofen has been associated with hypotension. Concurrent use with baclofen and antihypertensive agents may result in additive hypotension. Dosage adjustments of the antihypertensive medication may be required.
Barbiturates: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics.
Baxdrostat: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations if a potassium-sparing diuretic and baxdrostat are used together. Both medications increase serum potassium concentrations and concomitant use may increase the risk for hyperkalemia.
Beclomethasone: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss. (Minor) The manufacturer of spironolactone lists corticosteroids as a potential drug that interacts with spironolactone. Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia, may occur. However, potassium-sparing diuretics such as spironolactone do not induce hypokalemia. In fact, hypokalemia is one of the indications for potassium-sparing diuretic therapy. Therefore, drugs that induce potassium loss, such as corticosteroids, could counter the hyperkalemic effects of potassium-sparing diuretics.
Belladonna; Opium: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with opium. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone. (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when thiazide diuretics are administered with opium. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone. (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Benazepril: (Major) Amiloride should be used very cautiously with agents that have potential to induce hyperkalemia; serum potassium levels monitored when such agents are coadministered with amiloride. Simultaneous use of a potassium-sparing diuretic (e.g., amiloride) with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) can increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment (renal disease, elderly patients). These agents should be used with caution and serum potassium levels monitored when the substances are coadministered. The Beers Criteria recommends avoiding routine use of this combination in older adults; reserve this combination for patients with demonstrated hypokalemia while taking an ACE inhibitor. (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting benazepril, if possible, or start benazepril at the lower dose of 5 mg/day. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Amiloride should be used very cautiously with agents that have potential to induce hyperkalemia; serum potassium levels monitored when such agents are coadministered with amiloride. Simultaneous use of a potassium-sparing diuretic (e.g., amiloride) with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) can increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment (renal disease, elderly patients). These agents should be used with caution and serum potassium levels monitored when the substances are coadministered. The Beers Criteria recommends avoiding routine use of this combination in older adults; reserve this combination for patients with demonstrated hypokalemia while taking an ACE inhibitor. (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting benazepril, if possible, or start benazepril at the lower dose of 5 mg/day. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with benzhydrocodone. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone. (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when thiazide diuretics are administered with benzhydrocodone. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal insufficiency in patients receiving diuretics, secondary to effects on renal blood flow. Salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin production, which causes salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. Coadministration may cause hyperkalemia. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics may cause the urine to become alkaline. This may reduce the effectiveness of methenamine by inhibiting its conversion to formaldehyde. (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Benzphetamine: (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH. (Minor) Benzphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like potassium-sparing diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Benztropine: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Beta-agonists: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Betamethasone: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss. (Minor) The manufacturer of spironolactone lists corticosteroids as a potential drug that interacts with spironolactone. Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia, may occur. However, potassium-sparing diuretics such as spironolactone do not induce hypokalemia. In fact, hypokalemia is one of the indications for potassium-sparing diuretic therapy. Therefore, drugs that induce potassium loss, such as corticosteroids, could counter the hyperkalemic effects of potassium-sparing diuretics.
Bismuth Subsalicylate: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal insufficiency in patients receiving diuretics, secondary to effects on renal blood flow. Salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin production, which causes salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. Coadministration may cause hyperkalemia.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal insufficiency in patients receiving diuretics, secondary to effects on renal blood flow. Salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin production, which causes salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. Coadministration may cause hyperkalemia.
Bortezomib: (Moderate) Patients on antihypertensive agents receiving bortezomib treatment may require close monitoring of their blood pressure and dosage adjustment of their medication. During clinical trials of bortezomib, hypotension was reported in roughly 12 percent of patients. (Moderate) Patients on antihypertensive agents receiving bortezomib treatment may require close monitoring of their blood pressure and dosage adjustment of their medication. During clinical trials of bortezomib, hypotension was reported in roughly 12 percent of patients.
Brexpiprazole: (Moderate) Due to brexpiprazole's antagonism at alpha 1-adrenergic receptors, the drug may enhance the hypotensive effects of alpha-blockers and other antihypertensive agents.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure has been reported in some patients.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure has been reported in some patients.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Budesonide: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss. (Minor) The manufacturer of spironolactone lists corticosteroids as a potential drug that interacts with spironolactone. Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia, may occur. However, potassium-sparing diuretics such as spironolactone do not induce hypokalemia. In fact, hypokalemia is one of the indications for potassium-sparing diuretic therapy. Therefore, drugs that induce potassium loss, such as corticosteroids, could counter the hyperkalemic effects of potassium-sparing diuretics.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss. (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated. (Minor) The manufacturer of spironolactone lists corticosteroids as a potential drug that interacts with spironolactone. Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia, may occur. However, potassium-sparing diuretics such as spironolactone do not induce hypokalemia. In fact, hypokalemia is one of the indications for potassium-sparing diuretic therapy. Therefore, drugs that induce potassium loss, such as corticosteroids, could counter the hyperkalemic effects of potassium-sparing diuretics.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss. (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms. (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated. (Minor) The manufacturer of spironolactone lists corticosteroids as a potential drug that interacts with spironolactone. Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia, may occur. However, potassium-sparing diuretics such as spironolactone do not induce hypokalemia. In fact, hypokalemia is one of the indications for potassium-sparing diuretic therapy. Therefore, drugs that induce potassium loss, such as corticosteroids, could counter the hyperkalemic effects of potassium-sparing diuretics.
Bumetanide: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure, renal function, and serum electrolytes during concomitant loop diuretic and thiazide diuretic use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may result in additive hypotension and fluid and/or electrolyte loss.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and potassium-sparing diuretic use. Potassium-sparing diuretics may antagonize the pressor effects and potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and thiazide diuretic use. Thiazide diuretics may antagonize the pressor effects and potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics. (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Buprenorphine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with buprenorphine. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone. (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and buprenorphine; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with buprenorphine. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone. (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and buprenorphine; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics. (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with codeine. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone. (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and codeine; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with codeine. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone. (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and codeine; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic. (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal insufficiency in patients receiving diuretics, secondary to effects on renal blood flow. Salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin production, which causes salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. Coadministration may cause hyperkalemia.
Cabergoline: (Moderate) Cabergoline should be used cautiously with antihypertensive agents, including potassium-sparing diuretics. Cabergoline has been associated with hypotension. Initial doses of cabergoline higher than 1 mg may produce orthostatic hypotension. It may be advisable to monitor blood pressure. (Moderate) Cabergoline should be used cautiously with antihypertensive agents, including thiazide diuretics. Cabergoline has been associated with hypotension. Initial doses of cabergoline higher than 1 mg may produce orthostatic hypotension. It may be advisable to monitor blood pressure.
Calcifediol: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentrations during concomitant use of thiazide diuretics and vitamin D analogs; a dosage adjustment of the vitamin D analog may be needed. Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by concomitant administration.
Calcitriol: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentrations during concomitant use of thiazide diuretics and vitamin D analogs; a dosage adjustment of the vitamin D analog may be needed. Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by concomitant administration.
Calcium Acetate: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Calcium Carbonate: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Calcium Carbonate; Famotidine; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Calcium Carbonate; Simethicone: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Calcium Chloride: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Calcium Gluconate: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Calcium Phosphate, Supersaturated: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as diuretics may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients receiving sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous. (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as diuretics, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Calcium: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Calcium; Vitamin D: (Moderate) Dose adjustment of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs may be necessary during coadministration with thiazide diuretics. Additionally, serum calcium concentrations should be monitored frequently. Monitor more frequently in patients with a history of hypercalcemia. Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by coadministration of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics are known to induce hypercalcemia by reducing the excretion of calcium in the urine. (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Calcium; Vitamin D: (Moderate) Dose adjustment of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs may be necessary during coadministration with thiazide diuretics. Additionally, serum calcium concentrations should be monitored frequently. Monitor more frequently in patients with a history of hypercalcemia. Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by coadministration of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics are known to induce hypercalcemia by reducing the excretion of calcium in the urine. (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Canagliflozin: (Major) Assess and correct volume status before initiating canagliflozin in persons receiving concomitant thiazide diuretics. Monitor for signs and symptoms of volume depletion and loss of glycemic control after initiating therapy due to increased risk for volume depletion or hypotension and loss of blood glucose control. Persons receiving thiazide diuretics may be at increased risk for volume depletion or hypotension with concomitant canagliflozin therapy. Thiazide diuretics tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of glycemic control.
Canagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Major) Assess and correct volume status before initiating canagliflozin in persons receiving concomitant thiazide diuretics. Monitor for signs and symptoms of volume depletion and loss of glycemic control after initiating therapy due to increased risk for volume depletion or hypotension and loss of blood glucose control. Persons receiving thiazide diuretics may be at increased risk for volume depletion or hypotension with concomitant canagliflozin therapy. Thiazide diuretics tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of glycemic control. (Moderate) Certain drugs, such as thiazide diuretics, tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of glycemic control. The effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control appear to be dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, thiazide diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. Patients receiving metformin should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if any of these diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary in some patients.
Candesartan: (Major) Potassium-sparing diuretics, such as amiloride, should be used with caution in patients taking drugs that may increase serum potassium levels such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Concurrent use can cause hyperkalemia, especially in elderly patients or patients with impaired renal function. Coadministration may also result in increases in serum creatinine in heart failure patients.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Potassium-sparing diuretics, such as amiloride, should be used with caution in patients taking drugs that may increase serum potassium levels such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Concurrent use can cause hyperkalemia, especially in elderly patients or patients with impaired renal function. Coadministration may also result in increases in serum creatinine in heart failure patients.
Captopril: (Major) Amiloride should be used very cautiously with agents that have potential to induce hyperkalemia; serum potassium levels monitored when such agents are coadministered with amiloride. Simultaneous use of a potassium-sparing diuretic (e.g., amiloride) with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) can increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment (renal disease, elderly patients). These agents should be used with caution and serum potassium levels monitored when the substances are coadministered. The Beers Criteria recommends avoiding routine use of this combination in older adults; reserve this combination for patients with demonstrated hypokalemia while taking an ACE inhibitor. (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting captopril, if possible, or start captopril at the lower dose of 6.25 or 12.5 mg/day. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Amiloride should be used very cautiously with agents that have potential to induce hyperkalemia; serum potassium levels monitored when such agents are coadministered with amiloride. Simultaneous use of a potassium-sparing diuretic (e.g., amiloride) with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) can increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment (renal disease, elderly patients). These agents should be used with caution and serum potassium levels monitored when the substances are coadministered. The Beers Criteria recommends avoiding routine use of this combination in older adults; reserve this combination for patients with demonstrated hypokalemia while taking an ACE inhibitor. (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting captopril, if possible, or start captopril at the lower dose of 6.25 or 12.5 mg/day. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure.
carBAMazepine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant use of carbamazepine and thiazide diuretics due to additive risk of developing hyponatremia.
Carbidopa; Levodopa: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a potassium-sparing diuretic, is necessary. A potassium-sparing diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Carbidopa; Levodopa; Entacapone: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a potassium-sparing diuretic, is necessary. A potassium-sparing diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors: (Moderate) Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors promote electrolyte excretion including hydrogen ions, sodium, and potassium. They can enhance the sodium depleting effects of other diuretics when used concurrently. Pre-existing hypokalemia and hyperuricemia can also be potentiated by carbonic anhydrase inhibitors. Monitor serum potassium to determine the need for potassium supplementation and alteration in drug therapy.
Cardiac glycosides: (Moderate) Monitor serum magnesium and potassium during concomitant cardiac glycoside and thiazide diuretic use. Potassium-depleting diuretics are a major contributing factor to digoxin toxicity.
Cariprazine: (Moderate) Orthostatic vital signs should be monitored in patients who are at risk for hypotension, such as those receiving cariprazine in combination with antihypertensive agents. Atypical antipsychotics may cause orthostatic hypotension and syncope, most commonly during treatment initiation and dosage increases. Patients should be informed about measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning, or rising slowly from a seated position. Consider a cariprazine dose reduction if hypotension occurs.
Celecoxib: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics. (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics. (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with tramadol. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone. (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and tramadol; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic. (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Chloroprocaine: (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with codeine. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone. (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and codeine; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure has been reported in some patients.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with hydrocodone. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone. (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and hydrocodone; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics. (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure has been reported in some patients.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
chlorproMAZINE: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and phenothiazine use. Thiazide diuretics may potentiate the orthostatic hypotension that may occur with phenothiazines.
Cholestyramine: (Moderate) Cholestyramine, an ion exchange resin, binds hydrochlorothiazide and reduces its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85% when co-administered as single doses. Although the manufacturer for Questran recommends that other medicines be taken at least 1 hour before or 4-6 hours after cholestyramine, it has been recommended that thiazides be administered at least 4 hours before or after cholestyramine to minimize the reduction in absorption. By administering hydrochlorothiazide at least 4 hours before cholestyramine, the decrease in absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is approximately 30-35%.
Choline Salicylate; Magnesium Salicylate: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal insufficiency in patients receiving diuretics, secondary to effects on renal blood flow. Salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin production, which causes salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. Coadministration may cause hyperkalemia.
Chromium: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Ciclesonide: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss. (Minor) The manufacturer of spironolactone lists corticosteroids as a potential drug that interacts with spironolactone. Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia, may occur. However, potassium-sparing diuretics such as spironolactone do not induce hypokalemia. In fact, hypokalemia is one of the indications for potassium-sparing diuretic therapy. Therefore, drugs that induce potassium loss, such as corticosteroids, could counter the hyperkalemic effects of potassium-sparing diuretics.
Cidofovir: (Contraindicated) The administration of cidofovir with another potentially nephrotoxic agent, such as diuretics, is contraindicated. Diuretics should be discontinued at least 7 days prior to beginning cidofovir.
Cisapride: (Major) Cisapride should be used with great caution in patients receiving thiazide diuretics. Drugs that are associated with depletion of electrolytes may cause cisapride-induced cardiac arrhythmias. Serum electrolytes and creatinine should be assessed prior to administration of cisapride and whenever conditions develop that may affect electrolyte imbalance or renal function.
Cisatracurium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and thiazide diuretics may prolong neuromuscular blockade, possibly due to hypokalemia or alterations in potassium concentrations across the end-plate membrane.
Citalopram: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and citalopram use; consider discontinuing citalopram if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Citric Acid; Potassium Citrate; Sodium Citrate: (Major) The use of potassium supplements in patients treated with amiloride is generally contraindicated. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. If potassium supplementation is used, monitor serum potassium concentrations closely.
Clindamycin; Tretinoin: (Moderate) A manufacturer of topical tretinoin states that tretinoin, ATRA should be administered with caution in patients who are also taking drugs known to be photosensitizers, such as thiazide diuretics, as concomitant use may augment phototoxicity. Patients should take care and use proper techniques to limit sunlight and UV exposure of treated areas.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Caution is advisable during concurrent use of clozapine and thiazide diuretics as concurrent use may increase the risk and severity of hypotension. In addition, electrolyte imbalance caused by thiazide diuretics may increase the risk of QT prolongation by clozapine. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and adjust amiloride dose accordingly as clozapine may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Cocaine: (Major) Use of cocaine with antihypertensive agents may increase the antihypertensive effects of the antihypertensive medications or may potentiate cocaine-induced sympathetic stimulation.
Cod Liver Oil: (Moderate) Dose adjustment of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs may be necessary during coadministration with thiazide diuretics. Additionally, serum calcium concentrations should be monitored frequently. Monitor more frequently in patients with a history of hypercalcemia. Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by coadministration of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics are known to induce hypercalcemia by reducing the excretion of calcium in the urine.
Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with codeine. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone. (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and codeine; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with codeine. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone. (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and codeine; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with codeine. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone. (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and codeine; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with codeine. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone. (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and codeine; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and phenothiazine use. Thiazide diuretics may potentiate the orthostatic hypotension that may occur with phenothiazines. (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with codeine. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone. (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and codeine; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure has been reported in some patients.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and phenothiazine use. Thiazide diuretics may potentiate the orthostatic hypotension that may occur with phenothiazines. (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with codeine. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone. (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and codeine; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
Co-Enzyme Q10, Ubiquinone: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant co-enzyme Q10 (ubiquinone) and potassium-sparing diuretic use. Concomitant use may result in additive hypotension. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant co-enzyme Q10 (ubiquinone) and thiazide diuretic use. Concomitant use may result in additive hypotension.
Colestipol: (Moderate) Although to a lesser extent than cholestyramine, colestipol also has been shown to inhibit the GI absorption and therapeutic response of thiazide diuretics. Single doses of colestipol resins reduce the absorption of HCTZ by up to 43%. Administering thiazide diuretics at least 2 hours before colestipol has been suggested to minimize the interaction.
Corticosteroids: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss. (Minor) The manufacturer of spironolactone lists corticosteroids as a potential drug that interacts with spironolactone. Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia, may occur. However, potassium-sparing diuretics such as spironolactone do not induce hypokalemia. In fact, hypokalemia is one of the indications for potassium-sparing diuretic therapy. Therefore, drugs that induce potassium loss, such as corticosteroids, could counter the hyperkalemic effects of potassium-sparing diuretics.
Corticotropin, ACTH: (Minor) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticotropin and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticotropin and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss. (Minor) Monitor serum electrolytes, particularly serum calcium concentrations, during concomitant corticotropin and potassium-sparing diuretic use. Corticotropin may accentuate the electrolyte loss associated with diuretic therapy.
Cortisone: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss. (Minor) The manufacturer of spironolactone lists corticosteroids as a potential drug that interacts with spironolactone. Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia, may occur. However, potassium-sparing diuretics such as spironolactone do not induce hypokalemia. In fact, hypokalemia is one of the indications for potassium-sparing diuretic therapy. Therefore, drugs that induce potassium loss, such as corticosteroids, could counter the hyperkalemic effects of potassium-sparing diuretics.
Cosyntropin: (Moderate) Use cosyntropin cautiously in patients receiving diuretics. Cosyntropin may accentuate the electrolyte loss associated with diuretic therapy.
cycloPHOSphamide: (Moderate) Closely monitor complete blood counts if coadministration of cyclophosphamide with thiazide diuretics is necessary as there is an increased risk of hematologic toxicity and immunosuppression.
cycloSPORINE: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cyclosporine and potassium-sparing diuretics, such as amiloride, due to the risk of hyperkalemia. If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor serum potassium concentrations.
Dapagliflozin: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Dapagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain drugs, such as thiazide diuretics, tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of glycemic control. The effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control appear to be dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, thiazide diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. Patients receiving metformin should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if any of these diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary in some patients. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Dapagliflozin; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. Finally, both thiazides and sulfonylureas have been reported to cause photosensitivity reactions; concomitant use may increase the risk of photosensitivity.
Darifenacin: (Minor) Diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Deflazacort: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss. (Minor) The manufacturer of spironolactone lists corticosteroids as a potential drug that interacts with spironolactone. Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia, may occur. However, potassium-sparing diuretics such as spironolactone do not induce hypokalemia. In fact, hypokalemia is one of the indications for potassium-sparing diuretic therapy. Therefore, drugs that induce potassium loss, such as corticosteroids, could counter the hyperkalemic effects of potassium-sparing diuretics.
Desloratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Desmopressin: (Moderate) Monitor serum sodium more frequently during concomitant desmopressin and thiazide diuretic use due to increased risk of water intoxication with hyponatremia.
Desvenlafaxine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) use; consider discontinuing the SNRI if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
dexAMETHasone: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss. (Minor) The manufacturer of spironolactone lists corticosteroids as a potential drug that interacts with spironolactone. Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia, may occur. However, potassium-sparing diuretics such as spironolactone do not induce hypokalemia. In fact, hypokalemia is one of the indications for potassium-sparing diuretic therapy. Therefore, drugs that induce potassium loss, such as corticosteroids, could counter the hyperkalemic effects of potassium-sparing diuretics.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure has been reported in some patients.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Dexlansoprazole: (Moderate) Proton pump inhibitors have been associated with hypomagnesemia. Hypomagnesemia occurs with thiazide diuretics (chlorothiazide, hydrochlorothiazide, indapamide, and metolazone). Low serum magnesium may lead to serious adverse events such as muscle spasm, seizures, and arrhythmias. Therefore, clinicians should monitor serum magnesium concentrations periodically in patients taking a PPI and diuretics concomitantly. Patients who develop hypomagnesemia may require PPI discontinuation in addition to magnesium replacement.
Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant potassium-sparing diuretic and methylphenidate use; a potassium-sparing diuretic dose adjustment may be necessary. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of medications used to treat hypertension. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and methylphenidate use; a thiazide diuretic dose adjustment may be necessary. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of medications used to treat hypertension.
Dextroamphetamine: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like potassium-sparing diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure has been reported in some patients.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure has been reported in some patients.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Contraindicated) Seven of ten patients with inducible ventricular tachycardia developed adverse reactions including sustained ventricular tachycardia and other somatic complaints during concomitant amiloride and quinidine administration. The therapeutic antiarrhythmic actions of quinidine were antagonized by amiloride. In addition, quinidine exerts either direct or indirect (alpha-adrenergic blockade) peripheral vasodilatory effects, which can decrease blood pressure. Hypotension is more severe with parenteral quinidine. Until more data are available, this drug combination should be avoided whenever possible. (Moderate) Quinidine can decrease blood pressure and should be used cautiously in patients receiving antihypertensive agents due to the potential for additive hypotension.
Diazoxide: (Moderate) Monitor for hyperglycemia and hyperuricemia during concomitant use of diazoxide and diuretics. Both medications have been associated with these adverse effects and risk may be additive with concomitant use.
Dichlorphenamide: (Moderate) Use dichlorphenamide and amiloride together with caution as both drugs can cause metabolic acidosis. Concurrent use may increase the severity of metabolic acidosis. Measure sodium bicarbonate concentrations at baseline and periodically during dichlorphenamide treatment. If metabolic acidosis occurs or persists, consider reducing the dose or discontinuing dichlorphenamide therapy. (Moderate) Use dichlorphenamide and diuretics together with caution. Dichlorphenamide increases potassium excretion and can cause hypokalemia and should be used cautiously with other drugs that may cause hypokalemia including loop diuretics and thiazide diuretics. Measure potassium concentrations at baseline and periodically during dichlorphenamide treatment. If hypokalemia occurs or persists, consider reducing the dose or discontinuing dichlorphenamide therapy.
Diclofenac: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics. (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics. (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Dicyclomine: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Diethylpropion: (Major) Diethylpropion has vasopressor effects and may limit the benefit of thiazide diuretics. Although leading drug interaction texts differ in the potential for an interaction between diethylpropion and this group of antihypertensive agents, these effects are likely to be clinically significant and have been described in hypertensive patients on these medications.
Diflunisal: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics. (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Digoxin: (Moderate) Amiloride can alter the response to digoxin therapy if administered concomitantly. Typically, digoxin concentrations are slightly elevated by amiloride, and a reduced responsiveness to the positive inotropic effects of digoxin therapy has been noted in patients receiving both agents simultaneously. Patients receiving these two drugs concurrently should be monitored for altered responses to digoxin therapy. (Moderate) Monitor serum magnesium and potassium during concomitant cardiac glycoside and thiazide diuretic use. Potassium-depleting diuretics are a major contributing factor to digoxin toxicity.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics. (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics. (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure has been reported in some patients.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
DOBUTamine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as metolazone when administered concomitantly.
Dofetilide: (Contraindicated) Hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia may occur with administration of potassium-depleting drugs such as loop diuretics and thiazide diuretics, increasing the potential for dofetilide-induced torsade de pointes. Additionally, in patients treated with either hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg or hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene 50 mg/100 mg daily in combination with dofetilide 500 mcg twice daily for 5 days, dofetilide AUC and Cmax concentrations increased by 27% and 21%, respectively, for the hydrochlorothiazide alone group and by 30% and 16%, respectively, for the hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene group. Furthermore, a 197% and 190% QTc increase over time was seen in the hydrochlorothiazide and hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene groups, respectively. Based on these findings, the manufacturer of dofetilide contraindicates the concomitant use of hydrochlorothiazide (alone or in combination with other drugs such as triamterene); these findings can be explained both by an increase in the plasma concentration of dofetilide and a reduction in the serum potassium concentration. In a population pharmacokinetic analysis of plasma dofetilide concentrations, the mean dofetilide clearance of dofetilide was 16% lower in patients on thiazide diuretics. It is prudent to avoid the use of any thiazide diuretic in combination with dofetilide. (Major) Drugs that are actively secreted via cationic tubular secretion, such as amiloride, should be co-administered with caution with dofetilide since they could increase dofetilide plasma concentrations via potential competition for renal cationic secretion. Increased dofetilide plasma concentrations may be associated with proarrhythmias.
Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Drugs that are actively secreted via cationic tubular secretion, such as amiloride, should be co-administered with caution with lamivudine since they could increase lamivudine plasma concentrations, and therefore lamivudine associated adverse reactions, via potential competition for renal cationic secretion.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Minor) Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as amiloride, may decrease memantine elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems. Careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of memantine and/or amiloride is recommended. (Minor) Memantine reduced the bioavailability of hydrochlorothiazide by roughly 20% in a drug interaction study. The clinical significance of this pharmacokinetic interaction, if any, is unknown.
DOPamine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as metolazone when administered concomitantly.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Moderate) Drugs that are actively secreted via cationic tubular secretion, such as amiloride, should be co-administered with caution with lamivudine since they could increase lamivudine plasma concentrations, and therefore lamivudine associated adverse reactions, via potential competition for renal cationic secretion.
Doxercalciferol: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentrations during concomitant use of thiazide diuretics and vitamin D analogs; a dosage adjustment of the vitamin D analog may be needed. Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by concomitant administration.
droPERidol: (Moderate) Caution is advised when using droperidol in combination with thiazide diuretics which may lead to electrolyte abnormalities, especially hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia, as such abnormalities may increase the risk for QT prolongation or cardiac arrhythmias.
Drospirenone: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentration during concomitant drospirenone and potassium-sparing diuretic use due to increased risk for hyperkalemia. Drospirenone has anti-mineralocorticoid activity, including the potential for hyperkalemia.
Drospirenone; Estetrol: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentration during concomitant drospirenone and potassium-sparing diuretic use due to increased risk for hyperkalemia. Drospirenone has anti-mineralocorticoid activity, including the potential for hyperkalemia.
Drospirenone; Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentration during concomitant drospirenone and potassium-sparing diuretic use due to increased risk for hyperkalemia. Drospirenone has anti-mineralocorticoid activity, including the potential for hyperkalemia.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentration during concomitant drospirenone and potassium-sparing diuretic use due to increased risk for hyperkalemia. Drospirenone has anti-mineralocorticoid activity, including the potential for hyperkalemia.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentration during concomitant drospirenone and potassium-sparing diuretic use due to increased risk for hyperkalemia. Drospirenone has anti-mineralocorticoid activity, including the potential for hyperkalemia.
Dulaglutide: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. Finally, both thiazides and sulfonylureas have been reported to cause photosensitivity reactions; concomitant use may increase the risk of photosensitivity.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) use; consider discontinuing the SNRI if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Drugs that are actively secreted via cationic tubular secretion, such as amiloride, should be co-administered with caution with lamivudine since they could increase lamivudine plasma concentrations, and therefore lamivudine associated adverse reactions, via potential competition for renal cationic secretion.
Empagliflozin: (Moderate) Administer empagliflozin with caution in patients receiving diuretics. When empagliflozin is initiated in patients already receiving diuretics, volume depletion can occur. Patients with impaired renal function, low systolic blood pressure, or who are elderly may also be at a greater risk for volume depletion and perhaps symptomatic hypotension. Before initiating empagliflozin in patients with one or more of these characteristics, assess volume status and correct if necessary. Monitor for signs and symptoms after initiating therapy. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin: (Moderate) Administer empagliflozin with caution in patients receiving diuretics. When empagliflozin is initiated in patients already receiving diuretics, volume depletion can occur. Patients with impaired renal function, low systolic blood pressure, or who are elderly may also be at a greater risk for volume depletion and perhaps symptomatic hypotension. Before initiating empagliflozin in patients with one or more of these characteristics, assess volume status and correct if necessary. Monitor for signs and symptoms after initiating therapy. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. Finally, both thiazides and sulfonylureas have been reported to cause photosensitivity reactions; concomitant use may increase the risk of photosensitivity.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Administer empagliflozin with caution in patients receiving diuretics. When empagliflozin is initiated in patients already receiving diuretics, volume depletion can occur. Patients with impaired renal function, low systolic blood pressure, or who are elderly may also be at a greater risk for volume depletion and perhaps symptomatic hypotension. Before initiating empagliflozin in patients with one or more of these characteristics, assess volume status and correct if necessary. Monitor for signs and symptoms after initiating therapy. (Moderate) Certain drugs, such as thiazide diuretics, tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of glycemic control. The effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control appear to be dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, thiazide diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. Patients receiving metformin should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if any of these diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary in some patients. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. Finally, both thiazides and sulfonylureas have been reported to cause photosensitivity reactions; concomitant use may increase the risk of photosensitivity.
Empagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Administer empagliflozin with caution in patients receiving diuretics. When empagliflozin is initiated in patients already receiving diuretics, volume depletion can occur. Patients with impaired renal function, low systolic blood pressure, or who are elderly may also be at a greater risk for volume depletion and perhaps symptomatic hypotension. Before initiating empagliflozin in patients with one or more of these characteristics, assess volume status and correct if necessary. Monitor for signs and symptoms after initiating therapy. (Moderate) Certain drugs, such as thiazide diuretics, tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of glycemic control. The effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control appear to be dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, thiazide diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. Patients receiving metformin should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if any of these diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary in some patients. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Enalapril, Enalaprilat: (Major) Amiloride should be used very cautiously with agents that have potential to induce hyperkalemia; serum potassium levels monitored when such agents are coadministered with amiloride. Simultaneous use of a potassium-sparing diuretic (e.g., amiloride) with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) can increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment (renal disease, elderly patients). These agents should be used with caution and serum potassium levels monitored when the substances are coadministered. The Beers Criteria recommends avoiding routine use of this combination in older adults; reserve this combination for patients with demonstrated hypokalemia while taking an ACE inhibitor. (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting enalapril, if possible, or start enalapril at the lower dose of 2.5 mg/day. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Amiloride should be used very cautiously with agents that have potential to induce hyperkalemia; serum potassium levels monitored when such agents are coadministered with amiloride. Simultaneous use of a potassium-sparing diuretic (e.g., amiloride) with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) can increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment (renal disease, elderly patients). These agents should be used with caution and serum potassium levels monitored when the substances are coadministered. The Beers Criteria recommends avoiding routine use of this combination in older adults; reserve this combination for patients with demonstrated hypokalemia while taking an ACE inhibitor. (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting enalapril, if possible, or start enalapril at the lower dose of 2.5 mg/day. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure.
Entecavir: (Moderate) Both entecavir and amiloride are secreted by active tubular secretion. In theory, coadministration of entecavir with amiloride may increase the serum concentrations of either drug due to competition for the drug elimination pathway. The manufacturer of entecavir recommends monitoring for adverse effects when these drugs are coadministered.
ePHEDrine: (Major) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by potassium-sparing diuretics. Blood pressure and heart rates should be monitored closely to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. (Major) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics, such as ephedrine, may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by thiazide diuretics. Blood pressure and heart rates should be monitored closely to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
ePHEDrine; guaiFENesin: (Major) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by potassium-sparing diuretics. Blood pressure and heart rates should be monitored closely to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. (Major) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics, such as ephedrine, may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by thiazide diuretics. Blood pressure and heart rates should be monitored closely to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and potassium-sparing diuretic use. Potassium-sparing diuretics may antagonize the pressor effects and potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and thiazide diuretic use. Thiazide diuretics may antagonize the pressor effects and potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
Eplerenone: (Contraindicated) Eplerenone should not be used concomitantly with potassium-sparing diuretics (e.g., amiloride, spironolactone, triamterene) because of the increased risk of developing hyperkalemia. The combine use of these medications in patients with hypertension or renal impairment contraindicated.
Epoprostenol: (Moderate) Epoprostenol can have additive effects when administered with other antihypertensive agents. These effects can be used to therapeutic advantage, but dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Ertugliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain drugs, such as thiazide diuretics, tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of glycemic control. The effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control appear to be dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, thiazide diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. Patients receiving metformin should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if any of these diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary in some patients.
Ertugliflozin; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Escitalopram: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and escitalopram use; consider discontinuing escitalopram if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Esomeprazole: (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant esomeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients; patients who are receiving antihypertensive agents concurrently with hormone therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive effectiveness.
Ethacrynic Acid: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure, renal function, and serum electrolytes during concomitant loop diuretic and thiazide diuretic use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may result in additive hypotension and fluid and/or electrolyte loss.
Ethanol: (Major) Advise patients to avoid alcohol while taking thiazide diuretics. Ingesting alcohol can increase the risk for orthostatic hypotension when taking a thiazide diuretic.
Ethiodized Oil: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure.
Etodolac: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics. (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Etomidate: (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Exenatide: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. Finally, both thiazides and sulfonylureas have been reported to cause photosensitivity reactions; concomitant use may increase the risk of photosensitivity.
Fenoprofen: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics. (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with fentanyl. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone. (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and fentanyl; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
Fexofenadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Finerenone: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if finerenone and potassium-sparing diuretics are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Fish Oil, Omega-3 Fatty Acids (Dietary Supplements): (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant fish oil and potassium-sparing diuretic use. Concomitant use may result in additive hypotension; high doses of fish oil may produce a blood pressure lowering effect. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant fish oil and thiazide diuretic use. Concomitant use may result in additive hypotension; high doses of fish oil may produce a blood pressure lowering effect.
flavoxATE: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Fluconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for fluconazole-related adverse events during concomitant hydrochlorothiazide use. Hydrochlorothiazide may decrease the renal clearance of fluconazole. Coadministration of fluconazole 100 mg PO and hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg PO for 10 days in normal volunteers (n = 13) resulted in a significant increase in fluconazole AUC and Cmax compared to fluconazole given alone. There was a mean +/- SD increase in fluconazole AUC and Cmax of 45% +/- 31% and 43% +/- 31%, respectively. These changes are attributed to a mean +/- SD reduction in fluconazole renal clearance of 30% +/- 12%.
Fludrocortisone: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss. (Minor) The manufacturer of spironolactone lists corticosteroids as a potential drug that interacts with spironolactone. Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia, may occur. However, potassium-sparing diuretics such as spironolactone do not induce hypokalemia. In fact, hypokalemia is one of the indications for potassium-sparing diuretic therapy. Therefore, drugs that induce potassium loss, such as corticosteroids, could counter the hyperkalemic effects of potassium-sparing diuretics.
Flunisolide: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss. (Minor) The manufacturer of spironolactone lists corticosteroids as a potential drug that interacts with spironolactone. Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia, may occur. However, potassium-sparing diuretics such as spironolactone do not induce hypokalemia. In fact, hypokalemia is one of the indications for potassium-sparing diuretic therapy. Therefore, drugs that induce potassium loss, such as corticosteroids, could counter the hyperkalemic effects of potassium-sparing diuretics.
Fluocinolone; Hydroquinone; Tretinoin: (Moderate) A manufacturer of topical tretinoin states that tretinoin, ATRA should be administered with caution in patients who are also taking drugs known to be photosensitizers, such as thiazide diuretics, as concomitant use may augment phototoxicity. Patients should take care and use proper techniques to limit sunlight and UV exposure of treated areas.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and fluoxetine use; consider discontinuing fluoxetine if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
fluPHENAZine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and phenothiazine use. Thiazide diuretics may potentiate the orthostatic hypotension that may occur with phenothiazines.
Flurbiprofen: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics. (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Fluticasone: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss. (Minor) The manufacturer of spironolactone lists corticosteroids as a potential drug that interacts with spironolactone. Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia, may occur. However, potassium-sparing diuretics such as spironolactone do not induce hypokalemia. In fact, hypokalemia is one of the indications for potassium-sparing diuretic therapy. Therefore, drugs that induce potassium loss, such as corticosteroids, could counter the hyperkalemic effects of potassium-sparing diuretics.
Fluticasone; Salmeterol: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss. (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated. (Minor) The manufacturer of spironolactone lists corticosteroids as a potential drug that interacts with spironolactone. Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia, may occur. However, potassium-sparing diuretics such as spironolactone do not induce hypokalemia. In fact, hypokalemia is one of the indications for potassium-sparing diuretic therapy. Therefore, drugs that induce potassium loss, such as corticosteroids, could counter the hyperkalemic effects of potassium-sparing diuretics.
Fluticasone; Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss. (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated. (Minor) The manufacturer of spironolactone lists corticosteroids as a potential drug that interacts with spironolactone. Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia, may occur. However, potassium-sparing diuretics such as spironolactone do not induce hypokalemia. In fact, hypokalemia is one of the indications for potassium-sparing diuretic therapy. Therefore, drugs that induce potassium loss, such as corticosteroids, could counter the hyperkalemic effects of potassium-sparing diuretics.
Fluticasone; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss. (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated. (Minor) The manufacturer of spironolactone lists corticosteroids as a potential drug that interacts with spironolactone. Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia, may occur. However, potassium-sparing diuretics such as spironolactone do not induce hypokalemia. In fact, hypokalemia is one of the indications for potassium-sparing diuretic therapy. Therefore, drugs that induce potassium loss, such as corticosteroids, could counter the hyperkalemic effects of potassium-sparing diuretics.
fluvoxaMINE: (Moderate) Patients receiving a diuretic during treatment with fluvoxamine may be at greater risk of developing syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). Hyponatremia due to SIADH has been reported during therapy with SSRIs. Cases involving serum sodium levels lower than 110 mmol/L have occurred. Hyponatremia may be potentiated by agents which can cause sodium depletion such as diuretics. Discontinuation of fluvoxamine should be considered in patients who develop symptomatic hyponatremia.
Formoterol: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Formoterol; Mometasone: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss. (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated. (Minor) The manufacturer of spironolactone lists corticosteroids as a potential drug that interacts with spironolactone. Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia, may occur. However, potassium-sparing diuretics such as spironolactone do not induce hypokalemia. In fact, hypokalemia is one of the indications for potassium-sparing diuretic therapy. Therefore, drugs that induce potassium loss, such as corticosteroids, could counter the hyperkalemic effects of potassium-sparing diuretics.
Foscarbidopa; Foslevodopa: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a potassium-sparing diuretic, is necessary. A potassium-sparing diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Fosinopril: (Major) Amiloride should be used very cautiously with agents that have potential to induce hyperkalemia; serum potassium levels monitored when such agents are coadministered with amiloride. Simultaneous use of a potassium-sparing diuretic (e.g., amiloride) with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) can increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment (renal disease, elderly patients). These agents should be used with caution and serum potassium levels monitored when the substances are coadministered. The Beers Criteria recommends avoiding routine use of this combination in older adults; reserve this combination for patients with demonstrated hypokalemia while taking an ACE inhibitor. (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting fosinopril, if possible, or start fosinopril at a lower dose to minimize hypotension. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Amiloride should be used very cautiously with agents that have potential to induce hyperkalemia; serum potassium levels monitored when such agents are coadministered with amiloride. Simultaneous use of a potassium-sparing diuretic (e.g., amiloride) with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) can increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment (renal disease, elderly patients). These agents should be used with caution and serum potassium levels monitored when the substances are coadministered. The Beers Criteria recommends avoiding routine use of this combination in older adults; reserve this combination for patients with demonstrated hypokalemia while taking an ACE inhibitor. (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting fosinopril, if possible, or start fosinopril at a lower dose to minimize hypotension. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure.
Furosemide: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure, renal function, and serum electrolytes during concomitant loop diuretic and thiazide diuretic use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may result in additive hypotension and fluid and/or electrolyte loss.
General anesthetics: (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Glimepiride: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
glipiZIDE: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain drugs, such as thiazide diuretics, tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of glycemic control. The effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control appear to be dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, thiazide diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. Patients receiving metformin should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if any of these diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary in some patients. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
glyBURIDE: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain drugs, such as thiazide diuretics, tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of glycemic control. The effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control appear to be dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, thiazide diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. Patients receiving metformin should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if any of these diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary in some patients. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Glycopyrrolate: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms. (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Granisetron: (Moderate) According to the manufacturer, caution is warranted when administering granisetron to patients with preexisting electrolyte abnormalities. Patients taking certain diuretics may develop an electrolyte abnormality that may lead to cardiac dysrhythmias and/or QT prolongation. Hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia may occur with administration of potassium-depleting drugs such as loop diuretics and thiazide diuretics, increasing the potential for cardiac arrhythmias.
guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure has been reported in some patients.
guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Halobetasol; Tazarotene: (Moderate) The manufacturer states that tazarotene should be administered with caution in patients who are also taking drugs known to be photosensitizers, such as thiazide diuretics, as concomitant use may augment phototoxicity. Patients should take care and use proper techniques to limit sunlight and UV exposure of treated areas.
Haloperidol: (Moderate) Caution is advisable during concurrent use of haloperidol and thiazide diuretics as electrolyte imbalance caused by diuretics may increase the risk of QT prolongation with haloperidol. Concomitant use may also cause additive hypotension. (Moderate) In general, haloperidol should be used cautiously with antihypertensive agents due to the possibility of additive hypotension.
Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with hydrocodone. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone. (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and hydrocodone; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic. (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
hydrALAZINE; Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant potassium-sparing diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Major) Amiloride should be used very cautiously with agents that have potential to induce hyperkalemia; serum potassium levels monitored when such agents are coadministered with amiloride. Simultaneous use of a potassium-sparing diuretic (e.g., amiloride) with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) can increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment (renal disease, elderly patients). These agents should be used with caution and serum potassium levels monitored when the substances are coadministered. The Beers Criteria recommends avoiding routine use of this combination in older adults; reserve this combination for patients with demonstrated hypokalemia while taking an ACE inhibitor. (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting moexipril, if possible, or start moexipril at the lower dose of 3.75 mg/day. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with hydrocodone. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone. (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and hydrocodone; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics. (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with hydrocodone. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone. (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and hydrocodone; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic. (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Hydrocortisone: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss. (Minor) The manufacturer of spironolactone lists corticosteroids as a potential drug that interacts with spironolactone. Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia, may occur. However, potassium-sparing diuretics such as spironolactone do not induce hypokalemia. In fact, hypokalemia is one of the indications for potassium-sparing diuretic therapy. Therefore, drugs that induce potassium loss, such as corticosteroids, could counter the hyperkalemic effects of potassium-sparing diuretics.
HYDROmorphone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with hydromorphone. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone. (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when thiazide diuretics are administered with hydromorphone. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Hyoscyamine: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal insufficiency in patients receiving diuretics, secondary to effects on renal blood flow. Salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin production, which causes salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. Coadministration may cause hyperkalemia. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics may cause the urine to become alkaline. This may reduce the effectiveness of methenamine by inhibiting its conversion to formaldehyde. (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Ibritumomab Tiuxetan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of potassium phosphate and potassium-sparing diuretics as concurrent use may increase the risk of severe and potentially fatal hyperkalemia, particularly in high-risk patients (renal impairment, cardiac disease, adrenal insufficiency). If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor serum potassium concentrations. (Major) The use of potassium supplements in patients treated with amiloride is generally contraindicated. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. If potassium supplementation is used, monitor serum potassium concentrations closely.
Ibuprofen lysine: (Moderate) Ibuprofen lysine may reduce the effect of diuretics; diuretics can increase the risk of nephrotoxicity of NSAIDs in dehydrated patients. During coadministration of NSAIDs and diuretic therapy, patients should be monitored for changes in the effectiveness of their diuretic therapy and for signs and symptoms of renal impairment.
Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics. (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics. (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics. (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Icosapent ethyl: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics may exacerbate hypertriglyceridemia and should be discontinued or changed to alternate therapy, if possible, prior to initiation of icosapent ethyl.
Iloperidone: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, iloperidone can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use with antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of iloperidone and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Iloprost: (Moderate) Amiloride can have additive effects when administered with other antihypertensive agents. These effects can be used to therapeutic advantage, but dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Incretin Mimetics: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. Finally, both thiazides and sulfonylureas have been reported to cause photosensitivity reactions; concomitant use may increase the risk of photosensitivity.
Indapamide: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. This may be desirable, but occasionally orthostatic hypotension may occur. Dosages should be adjusted based on clinical response.
Indomethacin: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics. (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Inotersen: (Moderate) Use caution with concomitant use of inotersen and diuretics due to the risk of glomerulonephritis and nephrotoxicity.
Insulin Aspart: (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control when thiazide diuretics are instituted or discontinued; dosage adjustments may be required. Thiazide diuretics can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of insulin by producing an increase in blood glucose levels. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes.
Insulin Aspart; Insulin Aspart Protamine: (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control when thiazide diuretics are instituted or discontinued; dosage adjustments may be required. Thiazide diuretics can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of insulin by producing an increase in blood glucose levels. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes.
Insulin Degludec: (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control when thiazide diuretics are instituted or discontinued; dosage adjustments may be required. Thiazide diuretics can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of insulin by producing an increase in blood glucose levels. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes.
Insulin Degludec; Liraglutide: (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control when thiazide diuretics are instituted or discontinued; dosage adjustments may be required. Thiazide diuretics can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of insulin by producing an increase in blood glucose levels. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. Finally, both thiazides and sulfonylureas have been reported to cause photosensitivity reactions; concomitant use may increase the risk of photosensitivity.
Insulin Detemir: (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control when thiazide diuretics are instituted or discontinued; dosage adjustments may be required. Thiazide diuretics can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of insulin by producing an increase in blood glucose levels. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes.
Insulin Glargine: (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control when thiazide diuretics are instituted or discontinued; dosage adjustments may be required. Thiazide diuretics can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of insulin by producing an increase in blood glucose levels. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes.
Insulin Glargine; Lixisenatide: (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control when thiazide diuretics are instituted or discontinued; dosage adjustments may be required. Thiazide diuretics can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of insulin by producing an increase in blood glucose levels. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. Finally, both thiazides and sulfonylureas have been reported to cause photosensitivity reactions; concomitant use may increase the risk of photosensitivity.
Insulin Glulisine: (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control when thiazide diuretics are instituted or discontinued; dosage adjustments may be required. Thiazide diuretics can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of insulin by producing an increase in blood glucose levels. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes.
Insulin Icodec: (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control when thiazide diuretics are instituted or discontinued; dosage adjustments may be required. Thiazide diuretics can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of insulin by producing an increase in blood glucose levels. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes.
Insulin Lispro: (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control when thiazide diuretics are instituted or discontinued; dosage adjustments may be required. Thiazide diuretics can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of insulin by producing an increase in blood glucose levels. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes.
Insulin Lispro; Insulin Lispro Protamine: (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control when thiazide diuretics are instituted or discontinued; dosage adjustments may be required. Thiazide diuretics can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of insulin by producing an increase in blood glucose levels. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes.
Insulin, Inhaled: (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control when thiazide diuretics are instituted or discontinued; dosage adjustments may be required. Thiazide diuretics can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of insulin by producing an increase in blood glucose levels. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes.
Insulins: (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control when thiazide diuretics are instituted or discontinued; dosage adjustments may be required. Thiazide diuretics can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of insulin by producing an increase in blood glucose levels. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes.
Intravenous Lipid Emulsions: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant fish oil and potassium-sparing diuretic use. Concomitant use may result in additive hypotension; high doses of fish oil may produce a blood pressure lowering effect. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant fish oil and thiazide diuretic use. Concomitant use may result in additive hypotension; high doses of fish oil may produce a blood pressure lowering effect.
Iodine; Potassium Iodide, KI: (Major) The use of potassium supplements in patients treated with amiloride is generally contraindicated. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. If potassium supplementation is used, monitor serum potassium concentrations closely.
Iodixanol: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure.
Iohexol: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure.
Iomeprol: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure.
Iopamidol: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure.
Iopromide: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure.
Ioversol: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure.
Ipratropium; Albuterol: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Irbesartan: (Major) Potassium-sparing diuretics, such as amiloride, should be used with caution in patients taking drugs that may increase serum potassium levels such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Concurrent use can cause hyperkalemia, especially in elderly patients or patients with impaired renal function. Coadministration may also result in increases in serum creatinine in heart failure patients.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Potassium-sparing diuretics, such as amiloride, should be used with caution in patients taking drugs that may increase serum potassium levels such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Concurrent use can cause hyperkalemia, especially in elderly patients or patients with impaired renal function. Coadministration may also result in increases in serum creatinine in heart failure patients.
Isocarboxazid: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may be seen when monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) are combined with antihypertensives. Careful monitoring of blood pressure is suggested during concurrent therapy of MAOIs with diuretics. Patients should be instructed to rise slowly from a sitting position, and to report syncope or changes in blood pressure or heart rate to their health care provider. (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may be seen when monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) are combined with antihypertensives. Careful monitoring of blood pressure is suggested during concurrent therapy of MAOIs with diuretics. Patients should be instructed to rise slowly from a sitting position, and to report syncope or changes in blood pressure or heart rate to their health care provider.
Isoflurane: (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control when thiazide diuretics are instituted or discontinued; dosage adjustments may be required. Thiazide diuretics can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of insulin by producing an increase in blood glucose levels. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes.
Isoproterenol: (Moderate) The pharmacologic effects of isoproterenol may cause an increase in blood pressure. If isoproterenol is used concomitantly with antihypertensives, the blood pressure should be monitored as the administration of isoproterenol can compromise the effectiveness of antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) The pharmacologic effects of isoproterenol may cause an increase in blood pressure. If isoproterenol is used concomitantly with antihypertensives, the blood pressure should be monitored as the administration of isoproterenol can compromise the effectiveness of antihypertensive agents.
Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant potassium-sparing diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Isosorbide Mononitrate: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant potassium-sparing diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Isosulfan Blue: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure.
Ketamine: (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Ketoprofen: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics. (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Ketorolac: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics. (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
lamiVUDine, 3TC: (Moderate) Drugs that are actively secreted via cationic tubular secretion, such as amiloride, should be co-administered with caution with lamivudine since they could increase lamivudine plasma concentrations, and therefore lamivudine associated adverse reactions, via potential competition for renal cationic secretion.
lamiVUDine, 3TC; Zidovudine, ZDV: (Moderate) Drugs that are actively secreted via cationic tubular secretion, such as amiloride, should be co-administered with caution with lamivudine since they could increase lamivudine plasma concentrations, and therefore lamivudine associated adverse reactions, via potential competition for renal cationic secretion.
lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Drugs that are actively secreted via cationic tubular secretion, such as amiloride, should be co-administered with caution with lamivudine since they could increase lamivudine plasma concentrations, and therefore lamivudine associated adverse reactions, via potential competition for renal cationic secretion.
Lansoprazole: (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant lansoprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant lansoprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Levalbuterol: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Levodopa: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a potassium-sparing diuretic, is necessary. A potassium-sparing diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Levomilnacipran: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) use; consider discontinuing the SNRI if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Levorphanol: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with levorphanol. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone. (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when thiazide diuretics are administered with levorphanol. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and potassium-sparing diuretic use. Potassium-sparing diuretics may antagonize the pressor effects and potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and thiazide diuretic use. Thiazide diuretics may antagonize the pressor effects and potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
Linagliptin: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. Finally, both thiazides and sulfonylureas have been reported to cause photosensitivity reactions; concomitant use may increase the risk of photosensitivity.
Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain drugs, such as thiazide diuretics, tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of glycemic control. The effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control appear to be dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, thiazide diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. Patients receiving metformin should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if any of these diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary in some patients. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. Finally, both thiazides and sulfonylureas have been reported to cause photosensitivity reactions; concomitant use may increase the risk of photosensitivity.
Liraglutide: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. Finally, both thiazides and sulfonylureas have been reported to cause photosensitivity reactions; concomitant use may increase the risk of photosensitivity.
Lisdexamfetamine: (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH. (Minor) Lisedexamfetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like potassium-sparing diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Lisinopril: (Major) Amiloride should be used very cautiously with agents that have potential to induce hyperkalemia; serum potassium levels monitored when such agents are coadministered with amiloride. Simultaneous use of a potassium-sparing diuretic (e.g., amiloride) with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) can increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment (renal disease, elderly patients). These agents should be used with caution and serum potassium levels monitored when the substances are coadministered. The Beers Criteria recommends avoiding routine use of this combination in older adults; reserve this combination for patients with demonstrated hypokalemia while taking an ACE inhibitor. (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting lisinopril, if possible, or start lisinopril at the lower dose of 5 mg/day. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Amiloride should be used very cautiously with agents that have potential to induce hyperkalemia; serum potassium levels monitored when such agents are coadministered with amiloride. Simultaneous use of a potassium-sparing diuretic (e.g., amiloride) with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) can increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment (renal disease, elderly patients). These agents should be used with caution and serum potassium levels monitored when the substances are coadministered. The Beers Criteria recommends avoiding routine use of this combination in older adults; reserve this combination for patients with demonstrated hypokalemia while taking an ACE inhibitor. (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting lisinopril, if possible, or start lisinopril at the lower dose of 5 mg/day. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure.
Lithium: (Moderate) Monitor lithium concentrations during concomitant use with thiazide diuretics; consider lower lithium starting doses and titrating slowly while frequently monitoring lithium concentrations and for signs of lithium toxicity. Thiazide diuretics reduce the renal clearance of lithium and increase the risk for lithium toxicity. (Minor) The risk of lithium toxicity may be increased in patients receiving medications that affect kidney function and sodium excretion, such as diuretics. However, concurrent use of potassium-sparing diuretics (e.g., amiloride, spironolactone, triamterene) with lithium is generally regarded as safe. Lithium is primarily reabsorbed from the proximal tubules whereas potassium-sparing diuretics inhibit the endothelial sodium channel in the renal collecting duct thereby inhibiting reabsorption of sodium and lithium. In one small study evaluating concurrent use of lithium and spironolactone, lithium clearance was increased by 16%, which was not considered clinically significant. Amiloride has been safely used as a reversal agent for lithium-induced nephrogenic diabetes insipidus. There is a lack of evidence to evaluate the effect of lithium and triamterene co-administration, however, a significant interaction would not be expected due to the pharmacologic similarities with other potassium-sparing diuretics.
Lixisenatide: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. Finally, both thiazides and sulfonylureas have been reported to cause photosensitivity reactions; concomitant use may increase the risk of photosensitivity.
Loop diuretics: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure, renal function, and serum electrolytes during concomitant loop diuretic and thiazide diuretic use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may result in additive hypotension and fluid and/or electrolyte loss.
Loratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Losartan: (Major) Potassium-sparing diuretics, such as amiloride, should be used with caution in patients taking drugs that may increase serum potassium levels such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Concurrent use can cause hyperkalemia, especially in elderly patients or patients with impaired renal function. Coadministration may also result in increases in serum creatinine in heart failure patients.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Potassium-sparing diuretics, such as amiloride, should be used with caution in patients taking drugs that may increase serum potassium levels such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Concurrent use can cause hyperkalemia, especially in elderly patients or patients with impaired renal function. Coadministration may also result in increases in serum creatinine in heart failure patients.
Lurasidone: (Moderate) Due to the antagonism of lurasidone at alpha-1 adrenergic receptors, the drug may enhance the hypotensive effects of alpha-blockers and other antihypertensive agents. If concurrent use of lurasidone and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Magnesium Salicylate: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal insufficiency in patients receiving diuretics, secondary to effects on renal blood flow. Salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin production, which causes salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. Coadministration may cause hyperkalemia.
Magnesium Sulfate; Potassium Sulfate; Sodium Sulfate: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sulfate salt bowel preparation in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as diuretics.
Mannitol: (Major) Avoid use of other diuretics with mannitol, if possible. Concomitant administration may potentiate the renal toxicity of mannitol.
Meclofenamate Sodium: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics. (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Mefenamic Acid: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics. (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Meglitinides: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. Finally, both thiazides and sulfonylureas have been reported to cause photosensitivity reactions; concomitant use may increase the risk of photosensitivity.
Meloxicam: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics. (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics. (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Memantine: (Minor) Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as amiloride, may decrease memantine elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems. Careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of memantine and/or amiloride is recommended. (Minor) Memantine reduced the bioavailability of hydrochlorothiazide by roughly 20% in a drug interaction study. The clinical significance of this pharmacokinetic interaction, if any, is unknown.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with meperidine. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone. (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when thiazide diuretics are administered with meperidine. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Metaproterenol: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain drugs, such as thiazide diuretics, tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of glycemic control. The effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control appear to be dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, thiazide diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. Patients receiving metformin should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if any of these diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary in some patients.
metFORMIN; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Certain drugs, such as thiazide diuretics, tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of glycemic control. The effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control appear to be dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, thiazide diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. Patients receiving metformin should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if any of these diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary in some patients. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. Finally, both thiazides and sulfonylureas have been reported to cause photosensitivity reactions; concomitant use may increase the risk of photosensitivity.
metFORMIN; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Certain drugs, such as thiazide diuretics, tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of glycemic control. The effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control appear to be dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, thiazide diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. Patients receiving metformin should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if any of these diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary in some patients. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Methadone: (Moderate) Diuretics can cause electrolyte disturbances such as hypomagnesemia and hypokalemia, which may prolong the QT interval. As methadone may also prolong the QT interval, cautious coadministration with diuretics is needed. In addition, opiate agonists may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with diuretics. (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with methadone. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Methamphetamine: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like potassium-sparing diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
methazolAMIDE: (Moderate) Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors promote electrolyte excretion including hydrogen ions, sodium, and potassium. They can enhance the sodium depleting effects of other diuretics when used concurrently. Pre-existing hypokalemia and hyperuricemia can also be potentiated by carbonic anhydrase inhibitors. Monitor serum potassium to determine the need for potassium supplementation and alteration in drug therapy. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics may increase the risk of hypokalemia if used concurrently with methazolamide. Monitor serum potassium levels to determine the need for potassium supplementation and/or alteration in drug therapy. There may also be an additive diuretic or hyperuricemic effect.
Methenamine: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics may cause the urine to become alkaline. This may reduce the effectiveness of methenamine by inhibiting its conversion to formaldehyde.
Methenamine; Sodium Acid Phosphate; Methylene Blue; Hyoscyamine: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics may cause the urine to become alkaline. This may reduce the effectiveness of methenamine by inhibiting its conversion to formaldehyde. (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Methenamine; Sodium Salicylate: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal insufficiency in patients receiving diuretics, secondary to effects on renal blood flow. Salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin production, which causes salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. Coadministration may cause hyperkalemia. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics may cause the urine to become alkaline. This may reduce the effectiveness of methenamine by inhibiting its conversion to formaldehyde.
Methohexital: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics. (Moderate) Concurrent use of methohexital and antihypertensive agents increases the risk of developing hypotension.
Methotrexate: (Moderate) Monitor for increased methotrexate-related adverse reactions during concomitant thiazide diuretic use. Thiazide diuretics may decrease renal excretion of cytotoxic agents and enhance their myelosuppressive effects.
Methoxsalen: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of methoxsalen and other photosensitizing agents, such as thiazide diuretics, can increase the incidence or severity of photsensitization from either compound.
Methscopolamine: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Methylphenidate Derivatives: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant potassium-sparing diuretic and methylphenidate use; a potassium-sparing diuretic dose adjustment may be necessary. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of medications used to treat hypertension. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and methylphenidate use; a thiazide diuretic dose adjustment may be necessary. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of medications used to treat hypertension.
Methylphenidate: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant potassium-sparing diuretic and methylphenidate use; a potassium-sparing diuretic dose adjustment may be necessary. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of medications used to treat hypertension. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and methylphenidate use; a thiazide diuretic dose adjustment may be necessary. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of medications used to treat hypertension.
methylPREDNISolone: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss. (Minor) The manufacturer of spironolactone lists corticosteroids as a potential drug that interacts with spironolactone. Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia, may occur. However, potassium-sparing diuretics such as spironolactone do not induce hypokalemia. In fact, hypokalemia is one of the indications for potassium-sparing diuretic therapy. Therefore, drugs that induce potassium loss, such as corticosteroids, could counter the hyperkalemic effects of potassium-sparing diuretics.
Metoclopramide: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and prokinetic agents may result in decreased bioavailability of the thiazide diuretic.
Midodrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Miglitol: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Milnacipran: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) use; consider discontinuing the SNRI if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Milrinone: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of antihypertensive agents could lead to additive hypotension when administered with milrinone. Titrate milrinone dosage according to hemodynamic response. (Moderate) Concurrent administration of antihypertensive agents could lead to additive hypotension when administered with milrinone. Titrate milrinone dosage according to hemodynamic response.
Mirtazapine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and mirtazapine use; consider discontinuing mirtazapine if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Moexipril: (Major) Amiloride should be used very cautiously with agents that have potential to induce hyperkalemia; serum potassium levels monitored when such agents are coadministered with amiloride. Simultaneous use of a potassium-sparing diuretic (e.g., amiloride) with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) can increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment (renal disease, elderly patients). These agents should be used with caution and serum potassium levels monitored when the substances are coadministered. The Beers Criteria recommends avoiding routine use of this combination in older adults; reserve this combination for patients with demonstrated hypokalemia while taking an ACE inhibitor. (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting moexipril, if possible, or start moexipril at the lower dose of 3.75 mg/day. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure.
Mometasone: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss. (Minor) The manufacturer of spironolactone lists corticosteroids as a potential drug that interacts with spironolactone. Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia, may occur. However, potassium-sparing diuretics such as spironolactone do not induce hypokalemia. In fact, hypokalemia is one of the indications for potassium-sparing diuretic therapy. Therefore, drugs that induce potassium loss, such as corticosteroids, could counter the hyperkalemic effects of potassium-sparing diuretics.
Morphine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a potassium-sparing diuretic and morphine; increase the dosage of the potassium-sparing diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and morphine; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
Nabumetone: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics. (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Naproxen: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics. (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics. (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant esomeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia. (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics. (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Nateglinide: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. Finally, both thiazides and sulfonylureas have been reported to cause photosensitivity reactions; concomitant use may increase the risk of photosensitivity.
Nefazodone: (Minor) Although relatively infrequent, nefazodone may cause orthostatic hypotension in some patients; this effect may be additive with antihypertensive agents. Blood pressure monitoring and dosage adjustments of either drug may be necessary.
Neostigmine; Glycopyrrolate: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Neuromuscular blockers: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and thiazide diuretics may prolong neuromuscular blockade, possibly due to hypokalemia or alterations in potassium concentrations across the end-plate membrane.
Niacin, Niacinamide: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. This effect is of particular concern in the setting of acute myocardial infarction, unstable angina, or other acute hemodynamic compromise.
Nitrates: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant potassium-sparing diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Nitroglycerin: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant potassium-sparing diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Nitroprusside: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may occur when nitroprusside is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. Dosages should be adjusted carefully, according to blood pressure. (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may occur when nitroprusside is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. Dosages should be adjusted carefully, according to blood pressure.
Non-Ionic Contrast Media: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure.
Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics. (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Norepinephrine: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause decreased arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine, but the effect is not sufficient to preclude their coadministration.
Octreotide: (Moderate) Patients receiving diuretics or other agents to control fluid and electrolyte balance may require dosage adjustments while receiving octreotide due to additive effects. (Moderate) Patients receiving diuretics or other agents to control fluid and electrolyte balance may require dosage adjustments while receiving octreotide due to additive effects.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Olanzapine may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the effects of antihypertensive agents.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and fluoxetine use; consider discontinuing fluoxetine if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia. (Moderate) Olanzapine may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the effects of antihypertensive agents.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Olanzapine may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the effects of antihypertensive agents.
Oliceridine: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure if diuretics are used concomitantly with oliceridine; increase the dosage of the diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone.
Olmesartan: (Major) Potassium-sparing diuretics, such as amiloride, should be used with caution in patients taking drugs that may increase serum potassium levels such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Concurrent use can cause hyperkalemia, especially in elderly patients or patients with impaired renal function. Coadministration may also result in increases in serum creatinine in heart failure patients.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Potassium-sparing diuretics, such as amiloride, should be used with caution in patients taking drugs that may increase serum potassium levels such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Concurrent use can cause hyperkalemia, especially in elderly patients or patients with impaired renal function. Coadministration may also result in increases in serum creatinine in heart failure patients.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Potassium-sparing diuretics, such as amiloride, should be used with caution in patients taking drugs that may increase serum potassium levels such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Concurrent use can cause hyperkalemia, especially in elderly patients or patients with impaired renal function. Coadministration may also result in increases in serum creatinine in heart failure patients.
Olodaterol: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Olopatadine; Mometasone: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss. (Minor) The manufacturer of spironolactone lists corticosteroids as a potential drug that interacts with spironolactone. Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia, may occur. However, potassium-sparing diuretics such as spironolactone do not induce hypokalemia. In fact, hypokalemia is one of the indications for potassium-sparing diuretic therapy. Therefore, drugs that induce potassium loss, such as corticosteroids, could counter the hyperkalemic effects of potassium-sparing diuretics.
Omeprazole: (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Omeprazole; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Orforglipron: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. Finally, both thiazides and sulfonylureas have been reported to cause photosensitivity reactions; concomitant use may increase the risk of photosensitivity.
Oxaprozin: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics. (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
oxyBUTYnin: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms. (Minor) Diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with oxycodone. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone. (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and oxycodone; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
Oxymetazoline: (Major) The vasoconstricting actions of oxymetazoline, an alpha adrenergic agonist, may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. If these drugs are used together, closely monitor for changes in blood pressure. (Major) The vasoconstricting actions of oxymetazoline, an alpha adrenergic agonist, may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. If these drugs are used together, closely monitor for changes in blood pressure.
oxyMORphone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when potassium-sparring diuretics are administered with oxymorphone. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone. (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when thiazide diuretics are administered with oxymorphone. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Paliperidone: (Moderate) Paliperidone may cause orthostatic hypotension, thereby enhancing the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. Orthostatic vital signs should be monitored in patients receiving paliperidone and potassium-sparing diuretics who are susceptible to hypotension. (Moderate) Paliperidone may cause orthostatic hypotension, thereby enhancing the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. Orthostatic vital signs should be monitored in patients receiving paliperidone and thiazide diuretics who are susceptible to hypotension.
Pantoprazole: (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant pantoprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Paricalcitol: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentrations during concomitant use of thiazide diuretics and vitamin D analogs; a dosage adjustment of the vitamin D analog may be needed. Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by concomitant administration.
PARoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and paroxetine use; consider discontinuing paroxetine if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Pasireotide: (Moderate) Cautious use of pasireotide and thiazide diuretics is advised as electrolyte imbalance caused by diuretics may increase the risk of QT prolongation with pasireotide. Assess the patient's potassium and magnesium concentration before and periodically during pasireotide receipt. Correct hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia before pasireotide receipt.
Penicillin G: (Major) Concomitant use of high doses of parenteral penicillin G potassium with potassium-sparing diuretics can cause hyperkalemia.
Pentamidine: (Moderate) Drugs that are associated with hypokalemia and/or hypomagnesemia such as thiazide diuretics should be used with caution in patients also receiving pentamidine. Since pentamidine may cause QT prolongation independently of electrolyte imbalances, the risk for cardiac arrhythmias is potentiated by the concomitant use of agents associated with electrolyte loss. Closely monitor serum electrolytes during pentamidine therapy.
Pentazocine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when potassium-sparring diuretics are administered with pentazocine. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone. (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when thiazide diuretics are administered with pentazocine. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
PENTobarbital: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics.
Pentoxifylline: (Moderate) Pentoxifylline has been used concurrently with antihypertensive drugs (beta blockers, diuretics) without observed problems. Small decreases in blood pressure have been observed in some patients treated with pentoxifylline; periodic systemic blood pressure monitoring is recommended for patients receiving concomitant antihypertensives. If indicated, dosage of the antihypertensive agents should be reduced.
Perindopril: (Major) Amiloride should be used very cautiously with agents that have potential to induce hyperkalemia; serum potassium levels monitored when such agents are coadministered with amiloride. Simultaneous use of a potassium-sparing diuretic (e.g., amiloride) with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) can increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment (renal disease, elderly patients). These agents should be used with caution and serum potassium levels monitored when the substances are coadministered. The Beers Criteria recommends avoiding routine use of this combination in older adults; reserve this combination for patients with demonstrated hypokalemia while taking an ACE inhibitor. (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting perindopril, if possible, or start perindopril at a lower dose to minimize hypotension. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Major) Amiloride should be used very cautiously with agents that have potential to induce hyperkalemia; serum potassium levels monitored when such agents are coadministered with amiloride. Simultaneous use of a potassium-sparing diuretic (e.g., amiloride) with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) can increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment (renal disease, elderly patients). These agents should be used with caution and serum potassium levels monitored when the substances are coadministered. The Beers Criteria recommends avoiding routine use of this combination in older adults; reserve this combination for patients with demonstrated hypokalemia while taking an ACE inhibitor. (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting perindopril, if possible, or start perindopril at a lower dose to minimize hypotension. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure.
Perphenazine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and phenothiazine use. Thiazide diuretics may potentiate the orthostatic hypotension that may occur with phenothiazines.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and phenothiazine use. Thiazide diuretics may potentiate the orthostatic hypotension that may occur with phenothiazines.
Phendimetrazine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Phenelzine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant potassium-sparing diuretic and phenelzine use due to risk for additive hypotension. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and phenelzine use due to risk for additive hypotension.
PHENobarbital: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics. (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Phenothiazines: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and phenothiazine use. Thiazide diuretics may potentiate the orthostatic hypotension that may occur with phenothiazines.
Phentermine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations and for increased topiramate-related adverse effects during concomitant hydrochlorothiazide use. Concomitant use has been shown to increase topiramate exposure by 29% and may potentiate the potassium-wasting action of hydrochlorothiazide. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure has been reported in some patients.
Photosensitizing agents (topical): (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics may cause photosensitivity and may increase the photosensitization effects of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy. Prevention of photosensitivity includes adequate protection from sources of UV radiation (e.g., avoiding sun exposure and tanning booths) and the use of protective clothing and sunscreens on exposed skin.
Pimozide: (Moderate) Caution is advisable during concurrent use of pimozide and thiazide diuretics as electrolyte imbalance caused by diuretics may increase the risk of QT prolongation with pimozide. Potassium deficiencies should be corrected prior to treatment with pimozide and normalized potassium levels should be maintained during treatment.
Pioglitazone: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Pioglitazone; Glimepiride: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Pioglitazone; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain drugs, such as thiazide diuretics, tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of glycemic control. The effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control appear to be dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, thiazide diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. Patients receiving metformin should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if any of these diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary in some patients. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Piroxicam: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics. (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Polycarbophil: (Moderate) Coadministration may lead to hypercalcemia because thiazides cause a decrease in renal tubular excretion of calcium as well as increase in distal tubular reabsorption. Each 625 mg of calcium polycarbophil contains a substantial amount of calcium (approximately 125 mg). Moderate increases in serum calcium have been seen during the treatment with thiazides; if calcium polycarbophil is used concomitantly, monitoring of serum calcium may be prudent.
Polyethylene Glycol; Electrolytes: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sulfate salt bowel preparation in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as diuretics.
Polyethylene Glycol; Electrolytes; Ascorbic Acid: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sulfate salt bowel preparation in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as diuretics.
Porfimer: (Major) Avoid coadministration of porfimer with thiazide diuretics due to the risk of increased photosensitivity. Porfimer is a light-activated drug used in photodynamic therapy; all patients treated with porfimer will be photosensitive. Concomitant use of other photosensitizing agents like thiazide diuretics may increase the risk of a photosensitivity reaction.
Potassium Acetate: (Major) The use of potassium supplements in patients treated with amiloride is generally contraindicated. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. If potassium supplementation is used, monitor serum potassium concentrations closely.
Potassium Bicarbonate: (Major) The use of potassium supplements in patients treated with amiloride is generally contraindicated. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. If potassium supplementation is used, monitor serum potassium concentrations closely.
Potassium Chloride: (Major) The use of potassium supplements in patients treated with amiloride is generally contraindicated. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. If potassium supplementation is used, monitor serum potassium concentrations closely.
Potassium Citrate: (Major) The use of potassium supplements in patients treated with amiloride is generally contraindicated. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. If potassium supplementation is used, monitor serum potassium concentrations closely.
Potassium Citrate; Citric Acid: (Major) The use of potassium supplements in patients treated with amiloride is generally contraindicated. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. If potassium supplementation is used, monitor serum potassium concentrations closely.
Potassium Gluconate: (Major) The use of potassium supplements in patients treated with amiloride is generally contraindicated. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. If potassium supplementation is used, monitor serum potassium concentrations closely.
Potassium Iodide, KI: (Major) The use of potassium supplements in patients treated with amiloride is generally contraindicated. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. If potassium supplementation is used, monitor serum potassium concentrations closely.
Potassium Phosphate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of potassium phosphate and potassium-sparing diuretics as concurrent use may increase the risk of severe and potentially fatal hyperkalemia, particularly in high-risk patients (renal impairment, cardiac disease, adrenal insufficiency). If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor serum potassium concentrations.
Potassium Phosphate; Sodium Phosphate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of potassium phosphate and potassium-sparing diuretics as concurrent use may increase the risk of severe and potentially fatal hyperkalemia, particularly in high-risk patients (renal impairment, cardiac disease, adrenal insufficiency). If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor serum potassium concentrations.
Potassium: (Major) The use of potassium supplements in patients treated with amiloride is generally contraindicated. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. If potassium supplementation is used, monitor serum potassium concentrations closely.
Pramlintide: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. Finally, both thiazides and sulfonylureas have been reported to cause photosensitivity reactions; concomitant use may increase the risk of photosensitivity.
Prazosin: (Moderate) Prazosin is well-known to produce a 'first-dose' phenomenon. Some patients develop significant hypotension shortly after administration of the first dose. The first dose response (acute postural hypotension) of prazosin may be exaggerated in patients who are receiving beta-adrenergic blockers, diuretics, or other antihypertensive agents. Concomitant administration of prazosin with other antihypertensive agents is not prohibited, however. This can be therapeutically advantageous, but lower dosages of each agent should be used. (Moderate) Prazosin is well-known to produce a 'first-dose' phenomenon. Some patients develop significant hypotension shortly after administration of the first dose. The first dose response (acute postural hypotension) of prazosin may be exaggerated in patients who are receiving beta-adrenergic blockers, diuretics, or other antihypertensive agents. Concomitant administration of prazosin with other antihypertensive agents is not prohibited, however. This can be therapeutically advantageous, but lower dosages of each agent should be used.
prednisoLONE: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss. (Minor) The manufacturer of spironolactone lists corticosteroids as a potential drug that interacts with spironolactone. Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia, may occur. However, potassium-sparing diuretics such as spironolactone do not induce hypokalemia. In fact, hypokalemia is one of the indications for potassium-sparing diuretic therapy. Therefore, drugs that induce potassium loss, such as corticosteroids, could counter the hyperkalemic effects of potassium-sparing diuretics.
predniSONE: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss. (Minor) The manufacturer of spironolactone lists corticosteroids as a potential drug that interacts with spironolactone. Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia, may occur. However, potassium-sparing diuretics such as spironolactone do not induce hypokalemia. In fact, hypokalemia is one of the indications for potassium-sparing diuretic therapy. Therefore, drugs that induce potassium loss, such as corticosteroids, could counter the hyperkalemic effects of potassium-sparing diuretics.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and potassium-sparing diuretic use. Potassium-sparing diuretics may antagonize the pressor effects and potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and thiazide diuretic use. Thiazide diuretics may antagonize the pressor effects and potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
Primidone: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics.
Probenecid: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause hyperuricemia. Although this effect represents a pharmacodynamic interaction and not a pharmacokinetic one, dosage adjustments of probenecid may be necessary if these agents are administered concurrently to patients being treated with probenecid.
Probenecid; Colchicine: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause hyperuricemia. Although this effect represents a pharmacodynamic interaction and not a pharmacokinetic one, dosage adjustments of probenecid may be necessary if these agents are administered concurrently to patients being treated with probenecid.
Procainamide: (Moderate) Procainamide can decrease blood pressure and should be used cautiously in patients receiving antihypertensive agents. Intravenous administration of procainamide is more likely to cause hypotensive effects. (Moderate) Procainamide can decrease blood pressure and should be used cautiously in patients receiving antihypertensive agents. Intravenous administration of procainamide is more likely to cause hypotensive effects.
Prochlorperazine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and phenothiazine use. Thiazide diuretics may potentiate the orthostatic hypotension that may occur with phenothiazines.
Promethazine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and phenothiazine use. Thiazide diuretics may potentiate the orthostatic hypotension that may occur with phenothiazines.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and phenothiazine use. Thiazide diuretics may potentiate the orthostatic hypotension that may occur with phenothiazines.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and phenothiazine use. Thiazide diuretics may potentiate the orthostatic hypotension that may occur with phenothiazines. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure has been reported in some patients.
Propofol: (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Pyridoxine, Vitamin B6: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Quinapril: (Major) Amiloride should be used very cautiously with agents that have potential to induce hyperkalemia; serum potassium levels monitored when such agents are coadministered with amiloride. Simultaneous use of a potassium-sparing diuretic (e.g., amiloride) with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) can increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment (renal disease, elderly patients). These agents should be used with caution and serum potassium levels monitored when the substances are coadministered. The Beers Criteria recommends avoiding routine use of this combination in older adults; reserve this combination for patients with demonstrated hypokalemia while taking an ACE inhibitor. (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting quinapril, if possible, or start quinapril at the lower dose of 5 mg/day. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Amiloride should be used very cautiously with agents that have potential to induce hyperkalemia; serum potassium levels monitored when such agents are coadministered with amiloride. Simultaneous use of a potassium-sparing diuretic (e.g., amiloride) with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) can increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment (renal disease, elderly patients). These agents should be used with caution and serum potassium levels monitored when the substances are coadministered. The Beers Criteria recommends avoiding routine use of this combination in older adults; reserve this combination for patients with demonstrated hypokalemia while taking an ACE inhibitor. (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting quinapril, if possible, or start quinapril at the lower dose of 5 mg/day. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure.
quiNIDine: (Contraindicated) Seven of ten patients with inducible ventricular tachycardia developed adverse reactions including sustained ventricular tachycardia and other somatic complaints during concomitant amiloride and quinidine administration. The therapeutic antiarrhythmic actions of quinidine were antagonized by amiloride. In addition, quinidine exerts either direct or indirect (alpha-adrenergic blockade) peripheral vasodilatory effects, which can decrease blood pressure. Hypotension is more severe with parenteral quinidine. Until more data are available, this drug combination should be avoided whenever possible. (Moderate) Quinidine can decrease blood pressure and should be used cautiously in patients receiving antihypertensive agents due to the potential for additive hypotension.
RABEprazole: (Moderate) Proton pump inhibitors have been associated with hypomagnesemia. Hypomagnesemia occurs with thiazide diuretics (chlorothiazide, hydrochlorothiazide, indapamide, and metolazone). Low serum magnesium may lead to serious adverse events such as muscle spasm, seizures, and arrhythmias. Therefore, clinicians should monitor serum magnesium concentrations periodically in patients taking a PPI and diuretics concomitantly. Patients who develop hypomagnesemia may require PPI discontinuation in addition to magnesium replacement.
Ramipril: (Major) Amiloride should be used very cautiously with agents that have potential to induce hyperkalemia; serum potassium levels monitored when such agents are coadministered with amiloride. Simultaneous use of a potassium-sparing diuretic (e.g., amiloride) with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) can increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment (renal disease, elderly patients). These agents should be used with caution and serum potassium levels monitored when the substances are coadministered. The Beers Criteria recommends avoiding routine use of this combination in older adults; reserve this combination for patients with demonstrated hypokalemia while taking an ACE inhibitor. (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting ramipril, if possible, or start ramipril at a lower dose to minimize hypotension. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may be seen when monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) are combined with antihypertensives. Careful monitoring of blood pressure is suggested during concurrent therapy of MAOIs with diuretics. Patients should be instructed to rise slowly from a sitting position, and to report syncope or changes in blood pressure or heart rate to their health care provider. (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may be seen when monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) are combined with antihypertensives. Careful monitoring of blood pressure is suggested during concurrent therapy of MAOIs with diuretics. Patients should be instructed to rise slowly from a sitting position, and to report syncope or changes in blood pressure or heart rate to their health care provider.
Regular Insulin: (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control when thiazide diuretics are instituted or discontinued; dosage adjustments may be required. Thiazide diuretics can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of insulin by producing an increase in blood glucose levels. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes.
Regular Insulin; Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control when thiazide diuretics are instituted or discontinued; dosage adjustments may be required. Thiazide diuretics can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of insulin by producing an increase in blood glucose levels. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes.
Remifentanil: (Moderate) Opiate agonists may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics.
Repaglinide: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. Finally, both thiazides and sulfonylureas have been reported to cause photosensitivity reactions; concomitant use may increase the risk of photosensitivity.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Risperidone may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. Lower initial doses or slower dose titration of risperidone may be necessary in patients receiving antihypertensive agents concomitantly. (Moderate) Risperidone may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. Lower initial doses or slower dose titration of risperidone may be necessary in patients receiving antihypertensive agents concomitantly.
Rocuronium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and thiazide diuretics may prolong neuromuscular blockade, possibly due to hypokalemia or alterations in potassium concentrations across the end-plate membrane.
Sacubitril; Valsartan: (Major) Potassium-sparing diuretics, such as amiloride, should be used with caution in patients taking drugs that may increase serum potassium levels such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Concurrent use can cause hyperkalemia, especially in elderly patients or patients with impaired renal function. Coadministration may also result in increases in serum creatinine in heart failure patients.
Salicylates: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal insufficiency in patients receiving diuretics, secondary to effects on renal blood flow. Salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin production, which causes salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. Coadministration may cause hyperkalemia.
Salmeterol: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Salsalate: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal insufficiency in patients receiving diuretics, secondary to effects on renal blood flow. Salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin production, which causes salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. Coadministration may cause hyperkalemia.
sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. Finally, both thiazides and sulfonylureas have been reported to cause photosensitivity reactions; concomitant use may increase the risk of photosensitivity.
Scopolamine: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Secobarbital: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics.
Semaglutide: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. Finally, both thiazides and sulfonylureas have been reported to cause photosensitivity reactions; concomitant use may increase the risk of photosensitivity.
Serdexmethylphenidate; Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant potassium-sparing diuretic and methylphenidate use; a potassium-sparing diuretic dose adjustment may be necessary. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of medications used to treat hypertension. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and methylphenidate use; a thiazide diuretic dose adjustment may be necessary. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of medications used to treat hypertension.
Serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) use; consider discontinuing the SNRI if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Sertraline: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and sertraline use; consider discontinuing sertraline if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Sevoflurane: (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Silodosin: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
SITagliptin: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Sodium Nitrite; Sodium Thiosulfate: (Moderate) Sodium nitrite causes vasodilation resulting in hypotension. Antihypertensive agents and other hypotension-producing agents such as vasodilators and tricyclic antidepressants can cause additive hypotensive or orthostatic effects.
Sodium Phosphate Monobasic Monohydrate; Sodium Phosphate Dibasic Anhydrous: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as diuretics may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients receiving sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous. (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as diuretics, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Sodium picosulfate; Magnesium oxide; Anhydrous citric acid: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as diuretics. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
Sodium Sulfate; Magnesium Sulfate; Potassium Chloride: (Major) The use of potassium supplements in patients treated with amiloride is generally contraindicated. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. If potassium supplementation is used, monitor serum potassium concentrations closely.
Solifenacin: (Minor) Diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms. Risk versus benefit should be addressed in patients receiving diuretics and solifenacin. (Minor) Diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms. Risk versus benefit should be addressed in patients receiving diuretics and solifenacin.
Sparsentan: (Moderate) Monitor potassium during concomitant use of sparsentan and potassium-sparing diuretics. Concomitant use increases the risk for hyperkalemia.
Streptozocin: (Minor) Because streptozocin is nephrotoxic, concurrent or subsequent administration of other nephrotoxic agents (e.g., aminoglycosides, amphotericin B, cisplatin, foscarnet, or diuretics) could exacerbate the renal insult.
Succinylcholine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and thiazide diuretics may prolong neuromuscular blockade, possibly due to hypokalemia or alterations in potassium concentrations across the end-plate membrane.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with sufentanil. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone. (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when thiazide diuretics are administered with sufentanil. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Sulfacetamide: (Moderate) Sulfonamides may cause photosensitization and may increase the photosensitizing effects of thiazide diuretics.
Sulfacetamide; Sulfur: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Sulfonamides may cause photosensitization and may increase the photosensitizing effects of thiazide diuretics.
Sulfamethoxazole; Trimethoprim, SMX-TMP, Cotrimoxazole: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sulfamethoxazole; trimethoprim and thiazide diuretics. An increased incidence of thrombocytopenia with purpura has been reported in elderly patients during coadministration. (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations if trimethoprim and a potassium-sparing diuretic are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. The risk for trimethoprim-associated hyperkalemia is greatest in patients with additional risk factors for hyperkalemia such as age greater than 65 years, those with underlying disorders of potassium metabolism, renal insufficiency, or those requiring high doses of trimethoprim.
Sulfonylureas: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Sulindac: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics. (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Sulopenem Etzadroxil; Probenecid: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause hyperuricemia. Although this effect represents a pharmacodynamic interaction and not a pharmacokinetic one, dosage adjustments of probenecid may be necessary if these agents are administered concurrently to patients being treated with probenecid.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics. (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Tacrolimus: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tacrolimus and potassium-sparing diuretics, such as amiloride, due to the risk of hyperkalemia. If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor serum potassium concentrations.
Tapentadol: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when potassium-sparing diuretics are administered with tapentadol. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone. (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when thiazide diuretics are administered with tapentadol. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Tazarotene: (Moderate) The manufacturer states that tazarotene should be administered with caution in patients who are also taking drugs known to be photosensitizers, such as thiazide diuretics, as concomitant use may augment phototoxicity. Patients should take care and use proper techniques to limit sunlight and UV exposure of treated areas.
Tegaserod: (Minor) Coadminisitration of thiazides and prokinetic agents may result in decreased bioavailability of the thiazide diuretic.
Telmisartan: (Major) Potassium-sparing diuretics, such as amiloride, should be used with caution in patients taking drugs that may increase serum potassium levels such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Concurrent use can cause hyperkalemia, especially in elderly patients or patients with impaired renal function. Coadministration may also result in increases in serum creatinine in heart failure patients.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Major) Potassium-sparing diuretics, such as amiloride, should be used with caution in patients taking drugs that may increase serum potassium levels such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Concurrent use can cause hyperkalemia, especially in elderly patients or patients with impaired renal function. Coadministration may also result in increases in serum creatinine in heart failure patients.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Major) Potassium-sparing diuretics, such as amiloride, should be used with caution in patients taking drugs that may increase serum potassium levels such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Concurrent use can cause hyperkalemia, especially in elderly patients or patients with impaired renal function. Coadministration may also result in increases in serum creatinine in heart failure patients. (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. This may be desirable, but occasionally orthostatic hypotension may occur. Dosages should be adjusted based on clinical response.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Potassium-sparing diuretics, such as amiloride, should be used with caution in patients taking drugs that may increase serum potassium levels such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Concurrent use can cause hyperkalemia, especially in elderly patients or patients with impaired renal function. Coadministration may also result in increases in serum creatinine in heart failure patients.
Terbutaline: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Tetrabenazine: (Moderate) Tetrabenazine may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. Lower initial doses or slower dose titration of tetrabenazine may be necessary in patients receiving antihypertensive agents concomitantly. (Moderate) Tetrabenazine may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. Lower initial doses or slower dose titration of tetrabenazine may be necessary in patients receiving antihypertensive agents concomitantly.
Tetracaine: (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents. Use extreme caution with the concomitant use of tetracaine and antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents. Use extreme caution with the concomitant use of tetracaine and antihypertensive agents.
Thiazolidinediones: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Thioridazine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and phenothiazine use. Thiazide diuretics may potentiate the orthostatic hypotension that may occur with phenothiazines.
Thiothixene: (Moderate) Thiothixene should be used cautiously in patients receiving antihypertensive agents. Additive hypotensive effects are possible.
Tiotropium; Olodaterol: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Tirzepatide: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. Finally, both thiazides and sulfonylureas have been reported to cause photosensitivity reactions; concomitant use may increase the risk of photosensitivity.
tiZANidine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant potassium-sparing diuretic and tizanidine use due to risk for additive hypotension. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and tizanidine use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Tolmetin: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics. (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Tolterodine: (Minor) Diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms. (Minor) Diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Tolvaptan: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if tolvaptan and potassium-sparing diuretics are used together. In clinical studies, hyperkalemia was reported at a rate 1% to 2% higher when tolvaptan was administered with potassium-sparing diuretics compared to administration of these medications with placebo. (Moderate) Monitor serum sodium closely if tolvaptan and thiazide diuretics are used together. Coadministration increases the risk of too rapid correction of serum sodium.
Topiramate: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations and for increased topiramate-related adverse effects during concomitant hydrochlorothiazide use. Concomitant use has been shown to increase topiramate exposure by 29% and may potentiate the potassium-wasting action of hydrochlorothiazide.
Toremifene: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium levels in patients receiving concomitant treatment with toremifene and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics decrease renal calcium excretion and may increase the risk of hypercalcemia in patients receiving toremifene.
Torsemide: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure, renal function, and serum electrolytes during concomitant loop diuretic and thiazide diuretic use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may result in additive hypotension and fluid and/or electrolyte loss.
traMADol: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with tramadol. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone. (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and tramadol; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when amiloride is administered with tramadol. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone. (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and tramadol; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
Trandolapril: (Major) Amiloride should be used very cautiously with agents that have potential to induce hyperkalemia; serum potassium levels monitored when such agents are coadministered with amiloride. Simultaneous use of a potassium-sparing diuretic (e.g., amiloride) with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) can increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment (renal disease, elderly patients). These agents should be used with caution and serum potassium levels monitored when the substances are coadministered. The Beers Criteria recommends avoiding routine use of this combination in older adults; reserve this combination for patients with demonstrated hypokalemia while taking an ACE inhibitor. (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting trandolapril, if possible, or start trandolapril at the lower dose of 0.5 mg/day. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Major) Amiloride should be used very cautiously with agents that have potential to induce hyperkalemia; serum potassium levels monitored when such agents are coadministered with amiloride. Simultaneous use of a potassium-sparing diuretic (e.g., amiloride) with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) can increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment (renal disease, elderly patients). These agents should be used with caution and serum potassium levels monitored when the substances are coadministered. The Beers Criteria recommends avoiding routine use of this combination in older adults; reserve this combination for patients with demonstrated hypokalemia while taking an ACE inhibitor. (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting trandolapril, if possible, or start trandolapril at the lower dose of 0.5 mg/day. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure.
Tranylcypromine: (Contraindicated) The use of hypotensive agents and tranylcypromine is contraindicated by the manufacturer of tranylcypromine because the effects of hypotensive agents may be markedly potentiated. (Contraindicated) The use of hypotensive agents and tranylcypromine is contraindicated by the manufacturer of tranylcypromine because the effects of hypotensive agents may be markedly potentiated.
traZODone: (Minor) Due to additive hypotensive effects, patients receiving antihypertensive agents concurrently with trazodone may have excessive hypotension. Decreased dosage of the antihypertensive agent may be required when given with trazodone. (Minor) Due to additive hypotensive effects, patients receiving antihypertensive agents concurrently with trazodone may have excessive hypotension. Decreased dosage of the antihypertensive agent may be required when given with trazodone.
Treprostinil: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents or diuretics if given concomitantly. This additive effect may be desirable, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
Tretinoin, ATRA: (Moderate) A manufacturer of topical tretinoin states that tretinoin, ATRA should be administered with caution in patients who are also taking drugs known to be photosensitizers, such as thiazide diuretics, as concomitant use may augment phototoxicity. Patients should take care and use proper techniques to limit sunlight and UV exposure of treated areas.
Tretinoin; Benzoyl Peroxide: (Moderate) A manufacturer of topical tretinoin states that tretinoin, ATRA should be administered with caution in patients who are also taking drugs known to be photosensitizers, such as thiazide diuretics, as concomitant use may augment phototoxicity. Patients should take care and use proper techniques to limit sunlight and UV exposure of treated areas.
Triamcinolone: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss. (Minor) The manufacturer of spironolactone lists corticosteroids as a potential drug that interacts with spironolactone. Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia, may occur. However, potassium-sparing diuretics such as spironolactone do not induce hypokalemia. In fact, hypokalemia is one of the indications for potassium-sparing diuretic therapy. Therefore, drugs that induce potassium loss, such as corticosteroids, could counter the hyperkalemic effects of potassium-sparing diuretics.
Trifluoperazine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and phenothiazine use. Thiazide diuretics may potentiate the orthostatic hypotension that may occur with phenothiazines.
Trihexyphenidyl: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Trimethoprim: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations if trimethoprim and a potassium-sparing diuretic are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. The risk for trimethoprim-associated hyperkalemia is greatest in patients with additional risk factors for hyperkalemia such as age greater than 65 years, those with underlying disorders of potassium metabolism, renal insufficiency, or those requiring high doses of trimethoprim.
Trospium: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of amiloride and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase amiloride and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Valsartan: (Major) Potassium-sparing diuretics, such as amiloride, should be used with caution in patients taking drugs that may increase serum potassium levels such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Concurrent use can cause hyperkalemia, especially in elderly patients or patients with impaired renal function. Coadministration may also result in increases in serum creatinine in heart failure patients.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Potassium-sparing diuretics, such as amiloride, should be used with caution in patients taking drugs that may increase serum potassium levels such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Concurrent use can cause hyperkalemia, especially in elderly patients or patients with impaired renal function. Coadministration may also result in increases in serum creatinine in heart failure patients.
Vecuronium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and thiazide diuretics may prolong neuromuscular blockade, possibly due to hypokalemia or alterations in potassium concentrations across the end-plate membrane.
Venlafaxine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) use; consider discontinuing the SNRI if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Verteporfin: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of verteporfin with thiazide diuretics is necessary due to the risk of increased photosensitivity. Verteporfin is a light-activated drug used in photodynamic therapy; all patients treated with verteporfin will be photosensitive. Concomitant use of other photosensitizing agents like thiazide diuretics may increase the risk of a photosensitivity reaction.
Vilazodone: (Moderate) Patients receiving vilazodone with medications known to cause hyponatremia, such as diuretics, may be at increased risk of developing hyponatremia. Hyponatremia has occurred in association with the use of antidepressants such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), and mirtazapine. Hyponatremia may manifest as headache, difficulty concentrating, memory impairment, confusion, weakness, and unsteadiness which may result in falls. Severe manifestations include hallucinations, syncope, seizure, coma, respiratory arrest, and death. Symptomatic hyponatremia may require discontinuation of vilazodone, as well as implementation of the appropriate medical interventions.
Vitamin B Complex Supplements: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. This effect is of particular concern in the setting of acute myocardial infarction, unstable angina, or other acute hemodynamic compromise.
Vitamin D analogs: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentrations during concomitant use of thiazide diuretics and vitamin D analogs; a dosage adjustment of the vitamin D analog may be needed. Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by concomitant administration.
Vitamin D: (Moderate) Dose adjustment of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs may be necessary during coadministration with thiazide diuretics. Additionally, serum calcium concentrations should be monitored frequently. Monitor more frequently in patients with a history of hypercalcemia. Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by coadministration of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics are known to induce hypercalcemia by reducing the excretion of calcium in the urine. (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Vitamin D: (Moderate) Dose adjustment of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs may be necessary during coadministration with thiazide diuretics. Additionally, serum calcium concentrations should be monitored frequently. Monitor more frequently in patients with a history of hypercalcemia. Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by coadministration of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics are known to induce hypercalcemia by reducing the excretion of calcium in the urine.
Vorinostat: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and thiazide diuretics together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Thiazide diuretics may cause electrolyte imbalances including low potassium; hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
Vortioxetine: (Moderate) Patients receiving a diuretic during treatment with vortioxetine may be at greater risk of developing syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). Clinically significant hyponatremia has been reported during therapy with vortioxetine. One case involving serum sodium levels lower than 110 mmol/l has occurred. Hyponatremia may be potentiated by agents which can cause sodium depletion such as diuretics. Discontinuation of vortioxetine should be considered in patients who develop symptomatic hyponatremia.
Warfarin: (Minor) Per the prescribing information for warfarin sodium, concomitant use of diuretics (carbonic anhydrase inhibitors, loop diuretics, osmotic diuretics, potassium-sparing diuretics, and thiazide diuretics) and warfarin may result in an increased or decreased PT/INR. Patients should be monitored for changes in the INR when either of these drugs is initiated or discontinued, or if the dosage is changed.
Xanomeline; Trospium: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of amiloride and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase amiloride and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
Ziconotide: (Moderate) Patients taking diuretics with ziconotide may be at higher risk of depressed levels of consciousness. If altered consciousness occurs, consideration of diuretic cessation is warranted in addition to ziconotide discontinuation.
Ziprasidone: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects are possible if ziprasidone is used concurrently with antihypertensive agents. Ziprasidone is a moderate antagonist of alpha-1 receptors and may cause orthostatic hypotension with or without tachycardia, dizziness, or syncope. (Moderate) Monitor potassium and magnesium levels when thiazide diuretics are used during ziprasidone therapy. The risk of QT prolongation from ziprasidone is increased in the presence of hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia.


Adverse Reaction
angina, bradycardia, fatigue, hyperkalemia, orthostatic hypotension, palpitations, sinus tachycardia


Adverse cardiovascular effects reported in 1% or less of patients receiving amiloride; hydrochlorothiazide include angina pectoris, orthostatic hypotension, and sinus tachycardia. Palpitations were reported in patients who received amiloride monotherapy. Cardiac arrhythmias were reported in more than 1% of patients receiving amiloride; hydrochlorothiazide. Cardiac arrhythmias usually are associated with amiloride-induced hyperkalemia. Amiloride-induced hyperkalemia can cause atrial fibrillation, supraventricular tachycardia (SVT) and life-threatening cardiac arrhythmias such as ventricular fibrillation, AV block, bradycardia, and ventricular tachycardia. Hyperkalemia is more likely to occur in patients with renal insufficiency, diabetes mellitus, elderly patients, or in patients receiving drugs known to cause hyperkalemia. The risk of amiloride-induced hyperkalemia is reduced by coadministration with hydrochlorothiazide. During clinical trials, hyperkalemia (serum potassium more than 5.5 mEq/L) occurred in 3% to 8% of patients receiving amiloride. The risk of hyperkalemia is roughly 1% to 2% in patients without renal impairment or diabetes mellitus who are receiving amiloride; hydrochlorothiazide. Signs and symptoms of hyperkalemia include reduced muscular strength, numbness, fatigue, flaccid paralysis of the extremities, sinus bradycardia, shock, and ECG changes. Monitoring of the serum potassium level is essential since mild hyperkalemia may not be associated with an abnormal ECG. When abnormal, the ECG in hyperkalemia is characterized primarily by tall, peaked T waves (or elevations from previous tracings), progressive widening of the QRS complex, and cardiac conduction disturbances. Since hyperkalemia, if uncorrected, is potentially fatal, it is essential to monitor serum potassium levels carefully in any patient receiving amiloride; hydrochlorothiazide, particularly when it is first introduced, at the time of dosage adjustments, and during any illness that could affect renal function. Elderly patients, diabetic patients, severely ill patients, or patients with impaired renal function who are receiving amiloride therapy are at high risk for developing hyperkalemia, and frequent determinations of serum electrolytes, creatinine, and BUN determinations is warranted. If hyperkalemia occurs, amiloride; hydrochlorothiazide should be discontinued immediately, and specific measures should be taken to reduce serum potassium concentrations when exceeds 6.5 mEq/L.


hypercalcemia, hypochloremia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, hyponatremia


In addition to hyperkalemia, patients receiving amiloride; hydrochlorothiazide should be monitored closely for signs of electrolyte imbalance including hyponatremia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, and hypochloremia. Symptomatic hyponatremia was reported in < = 1% of patients in clinical trials of amiloride; hydrochlorothiazide. Thiazides also can decrease urinary calcium excretion, resulting in hypercalcemia. Hypokalemia is one of the most common adverse effects when thiazide diuretics are administered alone and can lead to cardiac arrhythmias. However, combining amiloride with hydrochlorothiazide helps to counteract the potassium losses; potassium levels should be monitored with combination therapy.


glycosuria, hyperglycemia


Hydrochlorothiazide can produce glycosuria and hyperglycemia in diabetic patients. Blood and/or urine glucose levels should be assessed more carefully in diabetic patients receiving amiloride; hydrochlorothiazide.


gout, hyperuricemia


Thiazide diuretics such as hydrochlorothiazide are well known to cause hyperuricemia. The Framingham Study showed that acute gout occurred in only 20% of patients with hyperuricemia. Thiazide diuretics appear to interfere with proximal tubule secretion of uric acid since thiazides are also organic acids and they compete with uric acid for binding at this site. Since amiloride; hydrochlorothiazide reduces the clearance of uric acid, patients with gout or hyperuricemia may have exacerbations of their disease.


metabolic acidosis


Metabolic acidosis has been reported in patients receiving amiloride therapy and can potentiate the hyperkalemic effects of amiloride. Amiloride; hydrochlorothiazide should be used with caution in patients who may be predisposed to developing metabolic acidosis or respiratory acidosis, including those with cardiopulmonary disease or uncontrolled diabetes mellitus.


agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia, leukopenia, neutropenia, pancytopenia, thrombocytopenia


While their incidences are rare, blood dyscrasias have been reported with the use of the individual components of amiloride; hydrochlorothiazide. Aplastic anemia and neutropenia have been reported with amiloride therapy. Agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, pancytopenia, hemolytic anemia, leukopenia, and thrombocytopenia have been reported with thiazide therapy such as hydrochlorothiazide. 


hyperbilirubinemia, jaundice


Jaundice has been associated with the use of the individual components of amiloride; hydrochlorothiazide. Amiloride has been associated with jaundice in <= 1% of patients. Thiazide diuretics have been associated with intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice (rare), and hyperbilirubinemia. Caution should be used when thiazides are administered to jaundiced infants due to the risk of hyperbilirubinemia.


abdominal pain, anorexia, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, flatulence, GI bleeding, hiccups, nausea, pancreatitis, peptic ulcer, pyrosis (heartburn), sialadenitis, vomiting


Adverse GI effects reported during amiloride; hydrochlorothiazide therapy at an incidence of > 1% include abdominal pain, anorexia (3—8%), gastrointestinal pain, diarrhea, nausea (3—8%), and anorexia (3—8%). Reactions reported in <= 1% of patients include flatulence, constipation, GI bleeding, GI disturbance, appetite changes, abdominal fullness, hiccups, thirst, and vomiting. Nausea and vomiting can be reduced by administering the drug after meals but can also indicate electrolyte imbalance. Amiloride has been reported to cause activation of probable preexisting peptic ulcer, dyspepsia, and pyrosis (heartburn). Thiazides have also been reported to cause pancreatitis, sialadenitis, and cramping.


confusion, depression, dizziness, drowsiness, encephalopathy, headache, insomnia, paresthesias, restlessness, tremor, vertigo, weakness


Adverse nervous system effects reported in patients receiving amiloride;hydrochlorothiazide therapy include headache (3—8%), weakness (3—8%), fatigue (> 1%), dizziness (3—8%), paresthesias (<= 1%), vertigo (<= 1%), stupor (<= 1%), insomnia (<= 1%), nervousness (<= 1%), depression (<= 1%), drowsiness (<= 1%), and mental confusion (<= 1%). Encephalopathy and tremor have been reported with amiloride monotherapy. Restlessness has been reported with hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy.


azotemia, bladder spasm, dysuria, impotence (erectile dysfunction), increased urinary frequency, interstitial nephritis, nocturia, polyuria, renal failure (unspecified), urinary incontinence


Adverse urogenital tract effects, such as impotence (erectile dysfunction), nocturia, dysuria, urinary incontinence, and renal dysfunction including renal failure (unspecified) have occurred in <= 1% of patients receiving amiloride; hydrochlorothiazide. Urogenital adverse effects reported with amiloride include bladder spasm, increased urinary frequency, and polyuria. In addition, adverse renal effects reported with hydrochlorothiazide include azotemia, acute interstitial nephritis, elevated creatinine concentrations, and acute renal failure. These effects have occurred mainly in patients with preexisting renal disease.


hypercholesterolemia, hypertriglyceridemia


Hypercholesterolemia and/or hypertriglyceridemia have been associated with thiazide diuretic therapy, such as the hydrochlorothiazide component of amiloride; hydrochlorothiazide. Although elevations in total cholesterol concentrations of 8% can negate the protection against coronary heart disease provided by a 5 mmHg reduction in blood pressure, data from long-term studies suggest diuretic-induced cholesterol changes are not clinically significant and do not contribute to coronary heart disease risk. After approximately one year of treatment, total serum cholesterol concentrations will subside to baseline or lower, suggesting diuretic-induced cholesterol changes are not a significant coronary heart disease risk factor.


hypovolemia, syncope


Complications of thiazide diuretic therapy such as hydrochlorothiazide may include hypotension and intravascular volume depletion (hypovolemia), with potential for development of prerenal azotemia. Orthostatic hypotension can occur during hydrochlorothiazide therapy and can be exacerbated by ethanol, opiate agonists, or antihypertensive drugs. Syncope may result from excessive hypotension in patients receiving amiloride; hydrochlorothiazide and was reported in <= 1% of patients receiving amiloride; hydrochlorothiazide in clinical trials.


alopecia, diaphoresis, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, flushing, photosensitivity, pruritus, purpura, rash (unspecified), Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria


During pre-marketing trials, rash (unspecified) (3—8%) and pruritus (1—3%) were reported in  patients receiving amiloride; hydrochlorothiazide. Flushing, diaphoresis, erythema multiforme including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis, and alopecia were reported in <= 1% of patients receiving amiloride; hydrochlorothiazide. Purpura, photosensitivity, and urticaria have been reported with hydrochlorothiazide.


back pain, chest pain (unspecified), dyspnea, libido decrease, malaise, muscle cramps, xerostomia


Other adverse reactions reported in > 1% of patients taking amiloride; hydrochlorothiazide include dyspnea and leg ache. Muscle cramps/spasm, joint pain, back pain, chest pain (unspecified), malaise, dysgeusia, visual disturbance (visual impairment), nasal congestion, and gynecomastia have been reported in <= 1% of amiloride; hydrochlorothiazide-treated patients. Amiloride has been associated with libido decrease and xerostomia.


blurred vision, myopia, ocular hypertension, tinnitus, visual impairment, xanthopsia


Amiloride; hydrochlorothiazide may result in ophthalmic adverse reactions. Hydrochlorothiazide, a sulfonamide, can cause an idiosyncratic reaction, resulting in transient myopia and acute angle-closure glaucoma. Symptoms include acute onset of decreased visual acuity or ocular pain and typically occur within hours to weeks of drug initiation. Untreated acute angle-closure glaucoma can lead to permanent vision loss. Discontinue hydrochlorothiazide as rapidly as possible and consider prompt medical or surgical treatment if the ocular hypertension remains uncontrolled. Transient blurred vision, visual impairment, and xanthopsia have also been reported during hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy. Tinnitus has been reported during amiloride therapy.


anaphylactoid reactions, fever, pneumonitis, pulmonary edema, vasculitis


Hypersensitivity reactions manifested as anaphylactoid reactions, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis, cutaneous vasculitis), respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema, photosensitivity, fever, urticaria, and purpura have been reported with hydrochlorothiazide.


skin cancer


Hydrochlorothiazide has been associated with an increased risk of non-melanoma skin cancer. An FDA Sentinel Initiative study found that increased risk was mostly for squamous cell carcinoma and in White patients taking large cumulative doses. The increased risk for the overall population was approximately 1 additional case per 16,000 patients per year. For White patients taking a cumulative dose more than 50,000 mg, the risk increased to approximately 1 additional case per 6,700 patients per year.


diagnostic test interference


Calcium excretion is decreased by thiazide diuretics, such as hydrochlorothiazide, and pathologic changes in the parathyroid glands, with hypercalcemia and hypophosphatemia, have been observed in some individuals on prolonged thiazide therapy. Thiazide diuretics, such as hydrochlorothiazide, may cause diagnostic test interference with tests for parathyroid function; discontinue amiloridie; hydrochlorothiazide three days prior to carrying out parathyroid function tests.


Description

Amiloride and hydrochlorothiazide are diuretics used together to treat hypertension and edema. Amiloride is a potassium-sparing diuretic, and hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) is a thiazide diuretic. Although amiloride has little antihypertensive or diuretic activity compared with other diuretics, some additive effects have been noted when it is used concurrently with hydrochlorothiazide. Amiloride is added to counteract the potassium loss caused by hydrochlorothiazide. The combination may be helpful in patients requiring thiazide diuretics with hypokalemia who cannot tolerate or have been unresponsive to potassium supplements. Amiloride; hydrochlorothiazide (Moduretic) was approved by the FDA in 1981.

Mechanism Of Action

Amiloride-HCTZ combinations provide diuretic and antihypertensive activity principally due to hydrochlorothiazide, while acting through the amiloride component to counteract excessive potassium loss (and to a lesser extent magnesium loss) due to hydrochlorothiazide.
•Hydrochlorothiazide: Thiazide diuretics increase the excretion of water by inhibiting the reabsorption of sodium and chloride ions at the distal renal tubule. The natriuretic effects are accompanied by a secondary loss of potassium and bicarbonate which can cause a mild hypokalemic, hypochloremic, metabolic alkalosis. Thiazides also decrease the elimination of calcium and uric acid. Thiazides diuretics usually do not affect normal blood pressure. When chronically administered, diuretics decrease peripheral vascular resistance. The exact mechanism responsible for the lowered peripheral resistance is not known; however, excretion of urinary sodium by the kidneys is required to achieve blood pressure reduction. Initially, diuretics lower blood pressure by decreasing cardiac output, plasma volume and extracellular fluid volume. Cardiac output eventually returns to normal, plasma and extracellular fluid values return to slightly less than normal, but peripheral vascular resistance is reduced, resulting in lower blood pressure. Thiazide diuretics also decrease the glomerular filtration rate, which contributes to the drug's lower efficacy in patients with renal impairment. The changes in plasma volume induce an elevation in plasma renin activity and aldosterone secretion which contributes to the potassium losses associated with thiazide diuretics. In general, diuretics can worsen glucose tolerance and lipid abnormalities.
•Amiloride: Amiloride, like triamterene, inhibits the sodium-potassium ion exchange mechanism in the distal renal tubule. The drug appears to interfere directly with sodium reabsorption in the distal tubule by inhibiting sodium transport mechanisms. An electrical-potential difference across the membrane is created, which acts to block the passive distal tubular secretion of potassium. This action is the primary cause of amiloride's potassium-sparing effects. Increased urinary excretion of sodium, bicarbonate, calcium, and water lead to a slight diuresis. Amiloride, unlike spironolactone, is not an aldosterone antagonist. It also does not inhibit carbonic anhydrase activity. Amiloride has mild hypotensive effects.

Pharmacokinetics

Amiloride; hydrochlorothiazide is administered orally. The onset of the diuretic action is within 1—2 hours; the duration of action is approximately 24 hours.
 
Hydrochlorothiazide: Hydrochlorothiazide crosses the placenta, but not the blood-brain barrier and is distributed into breast milk. Hydrochlorothiazide is not significantly metabolized and is excreted unchanged in the urine; at least 61% of the dose is eliminated unchanged within 24 hours. The elimination half-life ranges from 5.6—14.8 hours.
Amiloride: Amiloride is 40% plasma protein-bound. The volume of distribution of amiloride suggests extensive extravascular distribution. It has been shown to cross the placenta and distribute into breast milk in animals, although it is not known if this also occurs in humans. Amiloride is not metabolized by the liver. Approximately 50% of a dose is excreted unchanged in the urine and another 40% excreted unchanged in the feces, possibly as unabsorbed drug or secondary to biliary elimination. The half-life is 6—9 hours in patients with normal renal function.


Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route


Hydrochlorothiazide: Hydrochlorothiazide absorption from the GI tract varies depending on the formulation, dose, and presence of concomitant disease states. Absorption is reduced in patients with hepatic, cardiac, and/or renal disease. The bioavailability is approximately 60—70%. The onset of action is 2 hours following oral administration, with peak effects occurring at 4 hours. The duration of action ranges from 6—12 hours.
Amiloride: Approximately 50% of a dose of amiloride is absorbed following oral administration;.peak amiloride plasma levels are obtained within 3—4 hours. Food can decrease the extent of absorption by 50%, but the rate of absorption is not altered. The onset of diuresis is generally 2 hours after administration, with peak effects at 6—10 hours and a duration of action of 24 hours.


Hepatic Impairment

Absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is reduced in patients with hepatic, cardiac, and/or renal disease. In patients with hepatitis, the half-life, urinary recovery, and AUC of amiloride are increased.

Renal Impairment

Absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is reduced in patients with hepatic, cardiac, and/or renal disease. Results from a study evaluating the pharmacokinetics of hydrochlorothiazide in relation to renal function indicate that the elimination half life increases with varying degrees of renal failure, from 6.4 hours for patients with normal renal function to 11.5 hours for patients with mild renal impairment (30—90 mL/min) to 20.7 hours in patients with CrCl < 30 mL/min. In addition, renal impairment reduced the clearance of amiloride, causing a prolongation of the half-life. The half-life has been reported to increase up to 144 hours in patients with end-stage renal disease.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Oral Administration


Administer with food.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

10 mg/day PO amiloride and 100 mg/day PO hydrochlorothiazide.

Elderly

10 mg/day PO amiloride and 100 mg/day PO hydrochlorothiazide.

Adolescents

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Children

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

Amiloride Hydrochloride 5mg, Hydrochlorothiazide 50mg Oral tablet

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Amiloride; hydrochlorothiazide should be used with caution in patients with hepatic disease since minor alterations of fluid and electrolyte balance may precipitate hepatic coma.

Renal Impairment

CrCl > 50 mL/min: No dosage adjustment needed.
CrCl 30—50 mL/min: Avoid amiloride use due to the risk of hyperkalemia. If amiloride use is necessary, reduce the recommended dose by 50%; monitor serum potassium closely.
CrCl 10—29 mL/min: Avoid amiloride use due to the risk of hyperkalemia. In addition, hydrochlorothiazide is generally not effective in this setting.
CrCl < 10 mL/min: Contraindicated in patients with renal failure or anuria.
 
Intermittent hemodialysis
Amiloride is contraindicated in patients with renal failure or anuria.

© 2026 Elsevier