=== Selexipag (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 4736)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Selexipag is a selective prostacyclin receptor (IP receptor) agonist indicated for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH, WHO Group I) to delay disease progression and reduce the risk of hospitalization for PAH.

Routes: oral, injection (IV/IM/SC); Common adult doses: 3,200 mcg/day PO; 3,600 mcg/day IV.

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure Avoid use of selexipag in hepatic failure (Child-Pugh class C) as it has not been studied in this patient population. Dose reduction of selexipag is recommended in moderate hepatic disease (Child-Pugh class B) due to increased exposure to...

Brand Names
  - UPTRAVI
  - Uptravi Powder

Dosage Forms
  - UPTRAVI 1000mcg Tablet
  - Uptravi 100mcg Tablet
  - UPTRAVI 1200mcg Tablet
  - UPTRAVI 1400mcg Tablet
  - Uptravi 150mcg Tablet
  - UPTRAVI 1600mcg Tablet
  - Uptravi 1800mcg Powder for Injection
  - UPTRAVI 200mcg Tablet
  - UPTRAVI 400mcg Tablet
  - UPTRAVI 600mcg Tablet
  - UPTRAVI 800mcg Tablet
  - UPTRAVI Titration Pack

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        200 mcg PO twice daily, initially. Increase dose by 200 mcg twice daily at weekly intervals to the highest tolerated dose, up to 1,600 mcg PO twice daily. If a dose cannot be tolerated, reduce the dose to the previously tolerated dose.
        Heading
        Children and Adolescents 2 to 17 years weighing 50 kg or more
        Dosage Description
        200 mcg PO twice daily, initially. Increase dose by 200 mcg twice daily at weekly intervals to the highest tolerated dose, up to 1,600 mcg PO twice daily. If a dose cannot be tolerated, reduce the dose to the previously tolerated dose.
        Heading
        Children and Adolescents 2 to 17 years weighing 40 to 49 kg
        Dosage Description
        150 mcg PO twice daily, initially. Increase dose by 150 mcg twice daily at weekly intervals to the highest tolerated dose, up to 1,600 mcg PO twice daily. If a dose cannot be tolerated, reduce the dose to the previously tolerated dose.
        Heading
        Children and Adolescents 2 to 17 years weighing 25 to 39 kg
        Dosage Description
        150 mcg PO twice daily, initially. Increase dose by 150 mcg twice daily at weekly intervals to the highest tolerated dose, up to 1,200 mcg PO twice daily. If a dose cannot be tolerated, reduce the dose to the previously tolerated dose.
        Heading
        Children and Adolescents 2 to 17 years weighing 9 to 24 kg
        Dosage Description
        100 mcg PO twice daily, initially. Increase dose by 100 mcg twice daily at weekly intervals to the highest tolerated dose, up to 800 mcg PO twice daily. If a dose cannot be tolerated, reduce the dose to the previously tolerated dose.
      Heading
      Intravenous dosage (substituting for oral selexipag therapy)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        225 mcg IV twice daily for 200 mcg PO twice daily; 450 mcg IV twice daily for 400 mcg PO twice daily; 675 mcg IV twice daily for 600 mcg PO twice daily; 900 mcg IV twice daily for 800 mcg PO twice daily; 1,125 mcg IV twice daily for 1,000 mcg PO twice daily; 1,350 mcg IV twice daily for 1,200 mcg PO twice daily; 1,575 mcg IV twice daily for 1,400 mcg PO twice daily; and 1,800 mcg IV twice daily for 1,600 mcg PO twice daily.
    Heading
    For the treatment of pulmonary hypertension to delay disease progression and reduce the risk of hospitalization in persons with WHO Group 1 pulmonary hypertension

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure
    General Information
    Avoid use of selexipag in hepatic failure (Child-Pugh class C) as it has not been studied in this patient population. Dose reduction of selexipag is recommended in moderate hepatic disease (Child-Pugh class B) due to increased exposure to selexipag and its active metabolite. A reduction in dose is not needed in mild hepatic disease (Child-Pugh class A).
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no adequate and well-controlled studies with the use of selexipag during human pregnancy. In individuals with pulmonary arterial hypertension, pregnancy is associated with an increased rate of maternal and fetal morbidity and mortality, including heart failure, stroke, spontaneous abortion, intrauterine growth restriction, premature labor, and preterm birth. Animal studies involving rats and rabbits showed no clinically relevant effects on embryofetal development and survival with oral selexipag doses that produced active metabolite exposures of up to 35 to 50 times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of 1,600 mcg PO twice daily on an AUC basis. In 1 of the studies involving pregnant rats, slight reductions in both maternal and fetal body weights were observed.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use selexipag with caution while breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of selexipag in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production. Because of high protein binding (more than 99%), the amount in milk is likely to be low. FDA-approved labeling recommends avoidance of selexipag while breast-feeding. Selexipag and its active metabolite should be completely eliminated from milk in 1 day. Selexipag or its metabolites were present in the milk of lactating rats. Epoprostenol may be a reasonable alternative during breast-feeding.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no adequate and well-controlled studies with the use of selexipag during human pregnancy. In individuals with pulmonary arterial hypertension, pregnancy is associated with an increased rate of maternal and fetal morbidity and mortality, including heart failure, stroke, spontaneous abortion, intrauterine growth restriction, premature labor, and preterm birth. Animal studies involving rats and rabbits showed no clinically relevant effects on embryofetal development and survival with oral selexipag doses that produced active metabolite exposures of up to 35 to 50 times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of 1,600 mcg PO twice daily on an AUC basis. In 1 of the studies involving pregnant rats, slight reductions in both maternal and fetal body weights were observed.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use selexipag with caution while breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of selexipag in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production. Because of high protein binding (more than 99%), the amount in milk is likely to be low. FDA-approved labeling recommends avoidance of selexipag while breast-feeding. Selexipag and its active metabolite should be completely eliminated from milk in 1 day. Selexipag or its metabolites were present in the milk of lactating rats. Epoprostenol may be a reasonable alternative during breast-feeding.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Acetaminophen; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Acetaminophen; Phenylephrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Acetaminophen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Amphetamine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Benzphetamine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Clopidogrel: (Major) Reduce the selexipag dose to once daily if coadministered with clopidogrel. Concomitant use may increase selexipag exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Selexipag is a CYP2C8 substrate and clopidogrel is a moderate CYP2C8 inhibitor. Coadministration has been observed to increase exposure to the active selexipag metabolite by approximately 2.7-fold.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Deferasirox: (Major) Reduce selexipag dose to once daily when coadministered with deferasirox due to increased exposure to the active metabolite of selexipag, which may cause side effects. Selexipag is a CYP2C8 substrate, and deferasirox is a moderate CYP2C8 inhibitor.
Desloratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Dexmethylphenidate: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Dextroamphetamine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Diethylpropion: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
DOBUTamine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
DOPamine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Doxapram: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension and syncope have been reported during duloxetine administration. The concurrent administration of antihypertensive agents and duloxetine may increase the risk of hypotension. It is advisable to monitor blood pressure if the combination is necessary.
Elbasvir; Grazoprevir: (Major) Administering selexipag with elbasvir may result in elevated selexipag plasma concentrations. Selexipag is a substrate of CYP3A and the active metabolite is a substrate for breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP). Elbasvir is an inhibitor of BCRP. If these drugs are used together, closely monitor for signs of adverse events. (Major) Administering selexipag with grazoprevir may result in elevated selexipag plasma concentrations. Selexipag is a substrate of CYP3A and the active metabolite is a substrate for breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP). Grazoprevir is an inhibitor of BCRP, and also a weak CYP3A inhibitor. If these drugs are used together, closely monitor for signs of adverse events.
ePHEDrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
ePHEDrine; guaiFENesin: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
EPINEPHrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Fexinidazole: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in selexipag efficacy during concomitant use of selexipag and fexinidazole. Concomitant use may decrease selexipag exposure. Selexipag is a UGT substrate and fexinidazole is a UGT inducer.
Fexofenadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Gemfibrozil: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of selexipag and gemfibrozil is contraindicated due to doubled exposure to selexipag and approximately 11-fold increased exposure to the selexipag active metabolite, which may cause side effects. Selexipag is a CYP2C8 substrate, and gemfibrozil is a strong CYP2C8 inhibitor.
guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Isoproterenol: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Leflunomide: (Major) Reduce selexipag dose to once daily when coadministered with leflunomide due to increased exposure to the active metabolite of selexipag, which may cause side effects. Following oral administration, leflunomide is metabolized to an active metabolite, teriflunomide, which is responsible for essentially all of leflunomide's in vivo activity. Selexipag is a CYP2C8 substrate. Teriflunomide is an inhibitor of CYP2C8.
Letermovir: (Moderate) Increased exposure to the active metabolite of selexipag may occur when administered concurrently with letermovir. In vitro data suggests letermovir is a CYP2C8 inhibitor; however, the magnitude of inhibition is unknown. According to the selexipag manufacturer, strong CYP2C8 inhibitors are contraindicated with selexipag, a CYP2C8 substrate, and a dosage reduction should be considered with moderate CYP2C8 inhibitors. Specifically, consider a less frequent dosing regimen (e.g., once daily) when initiating selexipag in patients on a moderate CYP2C8 inhibitor. Reduce selexipag dose when a moderate CYP2C8 inhibitor is initiated.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Lisdexamfetamine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Concurrent use of lopinavir with selexipag may result in elevated selexipag serum concentrations. Selexipag is a substrate for the drug transporter organic anion transporting polypeptide (OATP1B1/1B3); lopinavir is an OATP1B1 inhibitor. Monitor for increased toxicities if these drugs are given together.
Loratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Lurasidone: (Moderate) Due to the antagonism of lurasidone at alpha-1 adrenergic receptors, the drug may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. If concurrent use of lurasidone and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Methamphetamine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Methylphenidate: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Midodrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
NiCARdipine: (Moderate) Consider a dose reduction of selexipag to once daily dosing as clinically appropriate if adverse reactions occur when administered with nicardipine. Increased exposure to the active metabolite of selexipag is possible. Selexipag is a CYP2C8 substrate and nicardipine is a CYP2C8 inhibitor.
Norepinephrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Phendimetrazine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Phentermine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Phenylephrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Pirtobrutinib: (Major) Reduce the selexipag dose to once daily if coadministered with pirtobrutinib. Concomitant use may increase selexipag exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Selexipag is a CYP2C8 substrate and pirtobrutinib is a moderate CYP2C8 inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP2C8 inhibitor increased exposure to the active selexipag metabolite by approximately 2.7-fold.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Racepinephrine: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
rifAMPin: (Major) Increase the dose of selexipag up to twice when coadministering with rifampin. Reduce the selexipag dose when rifampin is stopped. Coadministration of selexipag and rifampin resulted in halved exposure to the selexipag active metabolite. Selexipag is a substrate of CYP2C8, UGT1A3, and UGT2B7; rifampin is an inducer of CYP2C8, UGT1A3, and UGT2B7.
Selpercatinib: (Major) Reduce selexipag dose to once daily when coadministered with selpercatinib due to increased exposure to the active metabolite of selexipag, which may cause side effects. Selexipag is a CYP2C8 substrate and selpercatinib is a moderate CYP2C8 inhibitor.
Serdexmethylphenidate; Dexmethylphenidate: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir; Voxilaprevir: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of voxilaprevir with selexipag. Taking these medications together may increase selexipag plasma concentrations, potentially increasing the risk for adverse events. Selexipag is a substrate for the drug transporters P-glycoprotein (P-gp), Organic Anion Transporting Polypeptides 1B1/1B3 (OATP1B1/1B3), and Breast Cancer Resistance Protein (BCRP). Voxilaprevir is a P-gp, OATP1B1/1B3, and BCRP inhibitor.
Sulfamethoxazole; Trimethoprim, SMX-TMP, Cotrimoxazole: (Major) Consider a less frequent dosing regimen (e.g., once daily) when initiating selexipag in patients receiving trimethoprim. Reduce the selexipag dose when trimethoprim is initiated in patients already taking selexipag. Coadministration can be expected to increase exposure to selexipag and its active metabolite. Selexipag is a substrate of CYP2C8; trimethoprim is a moderate CYP2C8 inhibitor.
Sympathomimetics: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Tedizolid: (Moderate) If possible, stop use of selexipag temporarily during treatment with oral tedizolid. If coadministration cannot be avoided, closely monitor for selexipag-associated adverse events. Concentrations of the selexipag active metabolite may be increased when selexipag is administered concurrently with oral tedizolid. The active metabolite of selexipag is a substrate of the Breast Cancer Resistance Protein (BCRP); oral tedizolid inhibits BCRP in the intestine.
Teriflunomide: (Major) Reduce selexipag dose to once daily when coadministered with teriflunomide due to increased exposure to the active metabolite of selexipag, which may cause side effects. Selexipag is a substrate of CYP2C8 and teriflunomide is a moderate CYP2C8 inhibitor.
Trimethoprim: (Major) Consider a less frequent dosing regimen (e.g., once daily) when initiating selexipag in patients receiving trimethoprim. Reduce the selexipag dose when trimethoprim is initiated in patients already taking selexipag. Coadministration can be expected to increase exposure to selexipag and its active metabolite. Selexipag is a substrate of CYP2C8; trimethoprim is a moderate CYP2C8 inhibitor.
Zonisamide: (Minor) Zonisamide is a weak inhibitor of P-glycoprotein (P-gp), and selexipag is a substrate of P-gp. There is theoretical potential for zonisamide to affect the pharmacokinetics of drugs that are P-gp substrates. Use caution when starting or stopping zonisamide or changing the zonisamide dosage in patients also receiving drugs which are P-gp substrates.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    Reported adverse reactions occurred more frequently during the dose titration phase of treatment.
    Headline
    headache
    General Information
    During selexipag clinical trials in adults, headache was the most commonly reported adverse reaction (65% vs. 32% placebo).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    abdominal pain, anorexia, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting
    General Information
    Gastrointestinal adverse reactions reported during selexipag clinical trials in adults include diarrhea (42% vs. 18% placebo), nausea (33% vs. 18% placebo), vomiting (18% vs. 9% placebo), and anorexia (decreased appetite, 6% vs. 3% placebo). During clinical trials in pediatric patients (n = 138; age 2 to 17 years), vomiting (39% vs. 19% placebo) and abdominal pain (15% vs. 6% placebo) were reported.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    arthralgia, myalgia
    General Information
    Musculoskeletal adverse reactions reported with the use of selexipag during clinical trials in adults include jaw pain (26% vs. 6% placebo), myalgia (16% vs. 6% placebo), pain in extremity (17% vs. 8% placebo), and arthralgia (11% vs. 8% placebo).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      myalgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    flushing, rash
    General Information
    During clinical trials in adults, flushing was reported in 12% of patients receiving selexipag compared to 5% of those in the placebo group. Rash was reported in 11% of patients in the selexipag group (vs. 8% placebo).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      flushing
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anemia
    General Information
    During clinical trials of selexipag, anemia, defined as a decrease in hemoglobin concentration to below 10 g/dL, was reported in 8.6% of patients treated with selexipag and 5% of those in the placebo group. The mean absolute changes in hemoglobin in adults at regular visits compared to baseline ranged from -0.34 to -0.02 g/dL in the selexipag group vs. -0.05 to 0.25 g/dL in the placebo group.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hyperthyroidism
    General Information
    During clinical trials, hyperthyroidism was reported in 1% of patients receiving selexipag compared to no patients in the placebo group. A reduction of up to -0.3 MU/L from a baseline median of 2.5 MU/L in median thyroid-stimulating hormone was observed during clinical trials in adults at most visits in the selexipag group compared to little change in the placebo group. No mean changes in triiodothyronine or thyroxine were observed in either group.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperthyroidism
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    pulmonary edema, veno-occlusive disease (VOD)
    General Information
    If signs of pulmonary edema occur during therapy with selexipag, consider the possibility of pulmonary veno-occlusive disease (VOD). Discontinue use of selexipag if pulmonary VOD is confirmed.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      veno-occlusive disease
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      pulmonary edema
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    hypotension
    General Information
    Symptomatic hypotension has been reported with the postmarketing use of selexipag.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    erythema, injection site reaction
    General Information
    Injection site reactions, such as infusion-site erythema/redness, pain, and swelling, have been reported in adults receiving intravenous infusions of selexipag.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      erythema
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      injection site reaction
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    growth inhibition
    General Information
    Pediatric patients receiving selexipag during clinical trials had growth inhibition as reflected by a smaller mean increase in body weight and height compared with placebo. The mean change in weight Z-score from baseline at 48 weeks in pediatric patients receiving selexipag (n = 54) was -0.31 compared with -0.09 in the placebo group (n = 61); at 96 weeks, mean change in selexipag-treated pediatric patients (n = 32) was -0.46 compared with -0.12 in the placebo group (n = 35). The mean change in height Z-score from baseline at 48 weeks in pediatric patients treated with selexipag (n = 54) was -0.16 compared with -0.04 in the placebo group (n = 61); at 96 weeks, mean change in selexipag-treated pediatric patients (n = 32) was -0.3 compared with -0.05 in the placebo group (n = 35). Monitor for growth inhibition when treating pediatric patients with selexipag.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      growth inhibition
      Severity
      Moderate

Description
  Text
  Selexipag is a selective prostacyclin receptor (IP receptor) agonist indicated for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH, WHO Group I) to delay disease progression and reduce the risk of hospitalization for PAH. Current pharmacologic options for PAH target specific pathways involved in the disease process; many patients require combination therapy with agents from different classes. Clinical studies showed that selexipag reduced pulmonary vascular resistance after 17 weeks of treatment in adult patients on stable background PAH therapy and, in a Phase III trial, reduced the risk of disease progression and hospitalization in adult patients who were untreated or receiving stable endothelin receptor antagonist and/or phosphodiesterase type-5 inhibitor therapy. In pediatric patients in the SALTO study, selexipag produced a 7% placebo-adjusted reduction in NT-proBNP at Week 24, which was used to support an inferred delay in PAH disease progression and reduction in hospitalization risk in pediatric patients. Selexipag was FDA-approved in December 2015.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Prostacyclin synthase is reduced in patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension, resulting in reduced production of prostacyclin, a potent vasodilator with antiproliferative effects. Selexipag is an oral selective prostacyclin receptor (IP receptor) agonist that is structurally distinct from prostacyclin. Activation of the prostacyclin receptor produces cyclic adenosine monophosphate, which induces vascular smooth muscle relaxation and produces decreases in vascular pressure and pulmonary vascular resistance and an increase in cardiac index.
 
Pharmacodynamics
During clinical trials, adult patients with WHO functional class II to III PAH who were concomitantly receiving endothelin receptor antagonists (ERAs) and/or phosphodiesterase type 5 (PDE-5) inhibitors were titrated to individual selexipag doses (up to 800 mcg twice daily). A statistically significant mean reduction in pulmonary vascular resistance of 30.3% (95% CI: -44.7%, -12.2%) and an increase in cardiac index of 0.41 L/minute/m2 (95% CI: 0.10, 0.71) were achieved. In pediatric trials (n = 6), a mean reduction of 5.55 Wood units x m2 (95% CI: -12.76, 1.67) in pulmonary vascular resistance index at week 16 was achieved.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    After oral administration, the maximum plasma concentration of selexipag and its active metabolite are reached in approximately 1 to 3 hours and 3 to 4 hours, respectively. The absolute bioavailability of orally administered selexipag is approximately 49%. The absorption of selexipag is prolonged in the presence of food, resulting in a delayed time to peak plasma concentration and a lower (approximately 30%) peak plasma concentration. The exposure to selexipag and the active metabolite did not change significantly in the presence of food.
    Name
    Intravenous Route
    Description
    The corresponding oral and intravenous doses provide similar exposure to the active metabolites; however, selexipag exposure is twice as high following intravenous administration compared to oral administration.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    In patients with mild (Child-Pugh class A) or moderate (Child-Pugh class B) hepatic impairment, the exposure to selexipag was 2- and 4-fold that seen in healthy subjects, respectively. Exposure to the active metabolite was unchanged in patients with mild hepatic impairment and doubled in patients with moderate hepatic impairment. At steady state, the exposure to the active metabolite in patients with moderate hepatic impairment after once daily dosing is expected to be similar to that in healthy subjects receiving twice daily selexipag. The exposure to selexipag at steady state is predicted to be 2-fold higher in patients with moderate hepatic impairment treated with a once daily regimen as compared to healthy subjects and a twice daily regimen.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    In patients with severe renal impairment (estimated glomerular filtration rate between 15 and 29 mL/minute/m2), a 40 to 70% increase in exposure to selexipag and its active metabolite was observed.
    Name
    Pediatrics
    Description
    Similar selexipag exposure was observed in pediatric study patients compared to adult patients after taking whole tablets with water, taking them with soft food, and dispersing in apple or orange juice.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Age has no effect on the pharmacokinetic parameters of selexipag and the active metabolite in patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension. Pharmacokinetic variables were similar in adult and elderly patients up to 75 years of age.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    Gender has no effect on the pharmacokinetic parameters of selexipag and the active metabolite in healthy subjects or patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    Race has no effect on the pharmacokinetic parameters of selexipag and the active metabolite in healthy subjects or patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension.
    Name
    Obesity
    Description
    Weight has no effect on the pharmacokinetic parameters of selexipag and the active metabolite in healthy subjects or patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension.
  Text
  Selexipag is administered orally and intravenously. Selexipag and its active metabolite are highly bound (approximately 99%) to plasma protein. Selexipag is hydrolyzed by carboxylesterase 1 to yield its active metabolite, which is approximately 37-fold as potent as selexipag. The exposure at steady-state to the active metabolite is approximately 3- to 4-fold that of selexipag. The volume of distribution of selexipag at steady state is 11.7 L. Elimination of selexipag is predominantly via metabolism. The terminal half-life of selexipag is 0.8 to 2.5 hours, and the terminal half-life of the active metabolite is 6.2 to 13.5 hours. Minimal accumulation of the active metabolite was noted upon twice daily administration, suggesting that the effective half-life is in the range of 3 to 4 hours. In a study of radiolabeled selexipag administered to healthy individuals, approximately 93% of radioactive medication material was found in the feces and 12% in the urine. Neither selexipag nor its active metabolite were found in urine.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP2C8, CYP3A4, UGT1A3, UGT2B7, OATP1B1, OATP1B3, P-glycoprotein (P-gp), BCRP.
Selexipag and its metabolite both undergo oxidative metabolism mainly by CYP2C8 and to a smaller extent by CYP3A4. Glucuronidation of the active metabolite is catalyzed by UGT1A3 and UGT2B7. Selexipag and its metabolite are substrates of OATP1B1 and OATP1B3. Selexipag is a substrate of P-gp, and the active metabolite is a substrate of the breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP). At clinically relevant concentrations, selexipag and its active metabolite do not inhibit or induce cytochrome P450 isoenzymes or hepatic or renal transport proteins.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Administer with or without food. Administration with food may improve tolerability.
Do not split, crush, or chew the tablets.
For individuals who cannot swallow tablets whole:
Mix with juice:
Disperse the 100 mcg or 150 mcg tablets in apple or orange juice. Do not mix with water or milk.
Add 1 or 2 teaspoons of juice to the prescribed number of tablets; use a minimum of at least 1 mL of juice per tablet.
Wait for 5 minutes and then stir until the tablets are dispersed.
Administer the mixture immediately after dispersion. Do not store tablets that are mixed with juice for later use.
Mix in soft food:
Administer the 100 mcg or 150 mcg tablets in soft foods, such as yogurt, applesauce, or mashed banana.
Cover the required number of tablets with soft food. Administer the mixture immediately. To ensure no tablet residue is left, add more soft food and administer the contents immediately. Do not store tablets that are mixed with soft food for later use.
Missed dose: If a dose is missed, administer as soon as possible unless the next dose is within the next 6 hours. If treatment is missed for 3 days or more, reinitiate treatment at a lower dose and retitrate.
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Administration Details
      Name
      Intravenous Administration
      Description
      Reconstitution
Remove the selexipag vial from the refrigerator approximately 30 to 60 minutes prior to reconstitution to allow it to reach room temperature of 20 to 25 degrees C (68 to 77 degrees F).
To inspect the contents in the vial, peel back the light protective wrap. The contents should appear as a white to almost white broken cake or powdered material. Immediately close the light protective wrap on the vial.
Protect the vial from light at all times and ensure that the protective wrap is covering the entire vial.
Reconstitute selexipag using a polypropylene syringe containing 8.6 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection.
Slowly inject the 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection into the vial as a stream directed toward the inside wall of the vial. Gently invert the vial and repeat gentle inversions until the powder is completely dissolved. Do not shake.
The final concentration of the reconstituted solution is 225 mcg/mL.
Peel back the light protective wrap to inspect for solution discoloration. The reconstituted solution should appear clear, colorless, and free from foreign material. Do not use the reconstituted solution if discolored, cloudy, or contains visible particles.
Storage of reconstituted solution: Document date and time of first puncture. Complete infusion within 4 hours of first puncture.
 
Dilution
Selexipag must be diluted in glass containers only.
Withdraw 100 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection and transfer into an empty sterile glass container.
Withdraw the required volume of selexipag reconstituted solution from the vial using a single, appropriately sized polypropylene syringe and dilute in the 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection to obtain the desired final dose. Discard any unused selexipag solution that remains in the vial; vials are single-use only.
For a 225 mcg dose: Withdraw 1 mL of the reconstituted solution for further dilution
For a 450 mcg dose: Withdraw 2 mL of the reconstituted solution for further dilution
For a 675 mcg dose: Withdraw 3 mL of the reconstituted solution for further dilution
For a 900 mcg dose: Withdraw 4 mL of the reconstituted solution for further dilution
For a 1,125 mcg dose: Withdraw 5 mL of the reconstituted solution for further dilution
For a 1,350 mcg dose: Withdraw 6 mL of the reconstituted solution for further dilution
For a 1,575 mcg dose: Withdraw 7 mL of the reconstituted solution for further dilution
For a 1,800 mcg dose: Withdraw 8 mL of the reconstituted solution for further dilution
Mix the diluted solution by gentle inversion of the glass container 5 times. Do not shake. The diluted solution should be clear and colorless.
Storage of diluted solution: Protect the dilute solution from light at all times; completely wrap the glass container with a light protective cover. Keep the diluted solution at room temperature of 20 to 25 degrees C (68 to 77 degrees F) and infuse within 4 hours from the first puncture of the vial stopper; this includes infusion time.
 
Intravenous Infusion
Infuse selexipag intravenously over 80 minutes using an infusion set made of DEHP-free polyvinyl chloride (PVC), natural latex rubber-free microbore tubing that is protected from light.
Do not use a filter for administration.
After completion of the infusion, infuse 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection at the same rate to empty any remaining solution in the IV line and ensure that the entire solution for infusion has been administered.
    Name
    Injectable Administration
    Description
    Visually inspect parenteral products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    3,200 mcg/day PO; 3,600 mcg/day IV.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    3,200 mcg/day PO; 3,600 mcg/day IV.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    weighing 40 kg or more: 3,200 mcg/day PO.
weighing 25 to 39 kg: 2,400 mcg/day PO.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    2 to 12 years weighing 40 kg or more: 3,200 mcg/day PO.
2 to 12 years weighing 25 to 39 kg: 2,400 mcg/day PO.
2 to 12 years weighing 9 to 24 kg: 1,600 mcg/day PO.
1 year: Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class A): No dosage adjustments needed.
Moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class B): Reduce the starting dose of selexipag (200 mcg for adults or as determined by body weight for pediatric patients) to once daily and increase by increments equal to that of the starting dose once daily at weekly intervals, as tolerated.
Severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C): Avoid use.
  Renal Impairment
  eGFR 15 mL/minute/1.73 m2 or more: No dosage adjustments needed.
eGFR less than 15 mL/minute/1.73 m2: No data are available.
 
Intermittent hemodialysis
There are no data in patients undergoing dialysis. Dialysis is unlikely to remove selexipag and its active metabolite because they are highly protein-bound.
