=== Alendronate — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 13)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Alendronate is an oral second-generation bisphosphonate; weekly or daily regimens are available for selected conditions.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 10 mg/day PO or 70 mg/week PO for osteoporosis. For Paget's disease 40 mg/day PO for 6 months.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): asthenia, dizziness, fever, headache, lymphopenia, malaise, peripheral edema, vertigo, arthralgia, bone pain, muscle cramps, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, alopecia, angioedema, erythema, photosensitivity, pruritus, rash (unspecified), stevens-johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria, conjunctivitis, ocular inflammation, ocular pain, uveitis, visual impairment

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. geriatric Geriatric adults may be at increased risk for the development of adverse GI reactions during alendronate therapy. Increased age has been identified as an independent risk...

ALENDRONATE

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Binosto, Fosamax

Indication Specific Dosing

Recommendations for adult calcium and vitamin D intake from the Bone Health and Osteoporosis Foundation (BHOF) to promote general bone health:
BHOF recommends a target daily intake of 1,200 mg of elemental calcium for females older than 50 years and males older than 70 years. Target daily elemental calcium intake for males 70 years or younger or females 50 years and younger is 1,000 mg.
BHOF recommends a daily vitamin D intake of 20 to 25 mcg (800 to 1,000 international units) for adults 50 years and older. For younger adults, follow the recommended daily allowance suggestions for vitamin D based on age.


For the treatment of osteoporosis

Once daily regimen for postmenopausal osteoporosis or osteoporosis in men
Oral dosage (tablets for daily administration)
Adult Males and Postmenopausal Adults


10 mg PO once daily. Supplement calcium and vitamin D if dietary intake is inadequate. Reevaluate periodically. The optimal duration of use has not been determined. People at low-risk for fracture should be considered for drug discontinuation after 3 to 5 years of use. After discontinuation, reassess fracture risk periodically. Consider stopping bisphosphonate treatment after 5 years unless there is a strong indication for treatment continuation, as the risk for certain medication-related harms may be increased.


Once-weekly regimen for postmenopausal osteoporosis or osteoporosis in men
Oral dosage (weekly tablets, oral solution, or effervescent-tablets for oral solution)
Adult Males and Postmenopausal Adults


70 mg PO once weekly. Supplement calcium and vitamin D if dietary intake is inadequate. Reevaluate periodically. The optimal duration of use has not been determined. People at low-risk for fracture should be considered for drug discontinuation after 3 to 5 years of use. After discontinuation, reassess fracture risk periodically. Consider stopping bisphosphonate treatment after 5 years unless there is a strong indication for treatment continuation, as the risk for certain medication-related harms may be increased.


Once daily regimen for corticosteroid-induced osteoporosis in adults
Oral dosage (tablets for daily administration)
Adults


5 mg PO once daily. For postmenopausal adults who are not taking estrogen replacement, the dose is 10 mg PO daily. Supplement calcium and vitamin D if dietary intake is inadequate. Reevaluate periodically. The optimal duration of use has not been determined. People at low-risk for fracture should be considered for drug discontinuation after 3 to 5 years of use. After discontinuation, reassess fracture risk periodically. Per guidelines, only use in people with moderate to high risk for fracture; not recommended if low fracture risk.


For osteoporosis prophylaxis

Once-weekly regimen for prevention of postmenopausal osteoporosis
Oral dosage (weekly tablets)
Postmenopausal Adults


35 mg PO once weekly. Supplement calcium and vitamin D if dietary intake is inadequate. The optimal treatment duration has not been determined; reevaluate periodically. For those at low risk for fracture, consider stopping alendronate after 3 to 5 years. After discontinuation of therapy, periodically reassess fracture risk.


Once daily regimen for prevention of postmenopausal osteoporosis
Oral dosage (tablets for daily administration)
Postmenopausal Adults


5 mg PO once daily. Supplement calcium and vitamin D if dietary intake is inadequate. The optimal treatment duration has not been determined; reevaluate periodically. For those at low risk for fracture, consider stopping alendronate after 3 to 5 years. After discontinuation of therapy, periodically reassess fracture risk.


For prevention of corticosteroid-induced osteoporosis in men and women
Oral dosage (tablets for daily administration)
Adults



5 mg PO once daily. For postmenopausal adults who are not taking estrogen replacement, the dose is 10 mg PO once daily. Supplement calcium and vitamin D if dietary intake is inadequate. The optimal treatment duration has not been determined; reevaluate periodically. For those at low risk for fracture, consider stopping alendronate after 3 to 5 years. After discontinuation of therapy, periodically reassess fracture risk. Per guidelines, only use in people with moderate to high risk for fracture; not recommended if low fracture risk.


For the treatment of Paget disease

Oral dosage (tablets for daily administration)
Adults


40 mg PO once daily for 6 months. Supplement calcium and vitamin D if dietary intake is inadequate. Retreatment may be considered after a 6-month post-treatment evaluation period, based on increases in serum alkaline phosphatase. Alendronate is associated with histologic and radiologic evidence of disease improvement, but guidelines suggest that retreatment with alendronate may be necessary within 2 to 6 years. Guidelines also recommend a single dose of zoledronic acid preferentially due to the rare need for retreatment within 5 years, but the alendronate regimen is also an acceptable option. There are long-term data for reducing pain and lytic lesions and improving quality of life.


For the treatment of malignant hypercalcemia†

Intravenous dosage†
Adults


Safety and efficacy have not been established. This dosage form is not available in the U.S. Doses of 5 mg, 7.5 mg, or 10 mg of alendronate IV infusion over 2 to 6 hours appear to be effective. While doses of 12.5 and 15 mg have also been studied, they may not provide any significant benefit over lower doses in terms of achieving serum calcium reduction.


For the treatment of osteogenesis imperfecta†

Oral dosage (daily)
Adults


10 mg PO once daily.


Children and Adolescents 3 to 17 years weighing 40 kg or more


10 mg PO once daily.


Children and Adolescents 3 to 17 years weighing 30 to 39 kg


5 to 10 mg PO once daily.


Children and Adolescents 3 to 17 years weighing less than 30 kg


5 mg PO once daily.


Oral dosage (weekly)
Adults


70 mg PO once weekly.


Children and Adolescents 3 to 17 years


70 mg PO once weekly.


For the treatment of complex regional pain syndrome†

Oral dosage (tablets for daily administration)
Adults


40 mg PO once daily for 8 weeks.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

geriatric


Geriatric adults may be at increased risk for the development of adverse GI reactions during alendronate therapy. Increased age has been identified as an independent risk factor particularly for GI perforations, ulcers, or bleeding, but not necessarily esophageal events.


aspiration, esophageal obstruction, inability to stand or sit upright, upper GI disease


Alendronate is contraindicated in individuals with abnormalities of the esophagus or esophageal obstruction which delay esophageal emptying, such as esophageal stricture or achalasia. Alendronate is also contraindicated in individuals who are at an increased risk of aspiration. Bisphosphonates may cause upper gastrointestinal mucosal irritation and may aggravate existing esophageal or upper GI disease, such as Barrett's esophagus, esophagitis, dysphasia, gastritis, gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), hiatal hernia, duodenitis, ulcers, or GI perforation. Further, use is contraindicated in individuals with an inability to stand or sit upright for at least 30 minutes after dose administration as the risk of esophagitis and esophageal ulceration/erosion appears to be greater in those who lay down after taking this medicine, who fail to swallow it with the recommended full glass (6 to 8 oz) of water, and/or who continue to take oral bisphosphates after developing symptoms suggestive of esophageal irritation. Ensure complete administration instructions are followed. In people who cannot comply with dosing instructions due to mental disability, therapy with alendronate should occur under appropriate supervision. There have been conflicting findings from studies evaluating the risk between esophageal cancer and oral bisphosphonate use. However, the FDA has not concluded that individuals taking bisphosphonates have an increased risk of esophageal cancer.


hypocalcemia, hypoparathyroidism, malabsorption syndrome, parathyroid surgery, small bowel resection, thyroid surgery, vitamin D deficiency


Alendronate is contraindicated in individuals with hypocalcemia. Treat hypocalcemia and other disturbances of bone and mineral metabolism prior to initiation of alendronate therapy. Monitoring of calcium and mineral levels (phosphorus and magnesium) is highly recommended in individuals with pre-existing hypocalcemia and disturbances of mineral metabolism (e.g., hypoparathyroidism, thyroid surgery, parathyroid surgery, malabsorption syndromes, small bowel resection). If an electrolyte imbalance (i.e., hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, or hypophosphatemia) occurs during therapy, short-term supplementation, including adequate calcium and vitamin D, may be necessary. Vitamin D deficiency must be pretreated prior to initiation of alendronate therapy. Individuals at increased risk for vitamin D insufficiency (e.g., over the age of 70, nursing home-bound, or chronically ill) may need vitamin D supplementation. Individuals with gastrointestinal malabsorption syndromes may require higher doses of vitamin D supplementation and measurement of 25-hydroxyvitamin D should be considered. Adequate intake of calcium and vitamin D is essential. This is most important for individuals with Paget's disease who are to receive alendronate. Alendronate can decrease serum calcium and phosphate in these patients, who may have a higher rate of bone turnover.  


renal failure, renal impairment


Alendronate is not recommended for use in individuals with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance less than 35 mL/minute) or renal failure. No dosage adjustment is needed for individuals with a creatinine clearance of 35 mL/minute or greater.


breast-feeding


Use alendronate with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of alendronate in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the patient's clinical need for alendronate, and any potential adverse effects on the breast-fed child from the medication or from the underlying maternal medical condition.


anemia, coagulopathy, dental disease, dental work, ill-fitting dentures, infection, malignancy, planned procedure, poor oral hygiene


Consider dental examination and preventive dental work before starting bisphosphonate therapy, as dental extractions may be a risk factor for developing osteonecrosis of the jaw (ONJ). Avoid oral surgery during bisphosphonate therapy if possible. Other risk factors for ONJ include poor oral hygiene, dental disease, malignancy, concomitant therapies (e.g., chemotherapy, corticosteroids), and comorbidities (e.g., anemia, coagulopathy, infection, ill-fitting dentures). The risk of ONJ may increase with duration of exposure to bisphosphonates. For people requiring a planned procedure, such as invasive dental procedures, discontinuation of bisphosphonate treatment may reduce the risk for ONJ. Clinical judgment of the treating physician and/or oral surgeon should guide the management plan of each individual based on benefit/risk assessment. People who develop ONJ while on bisphosphonate therapy should receive care from an oral surgeon. In these people, extensive dental surgery to treat ONJ may exacerbate the condition.


edema, heart failure, hypertension, sodium restriction


The alendronate effervescent tablet dosage form contains 603 mg of sodium, which is equivalent to approximately 1,532 mg of salt (NaCl). Use this formulation with caution in individuals who require sodium restriction, including those with heart failure, hypertension, edema, or other cardiac disease.


pregnancy


Discontinue alendronate when pregnancy is recognized. There are no available data on the use of alendronate during human pregnancy to evaluate for a drug-associated risk of adverse outcomes. Based on animal data, bisphosphonates may cause fetal harm. Animal reproductive studies indicate alendronate may result in reduced fetal ossification and protracted parturition. Additionally, maternal hypocalcemia associated with alendronate use resulted in late pregnancy maternal and fetal deaths.


people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk


Counsel people who may become pregnant about the reproductive risk associated with alendronate. Bisphosphonates are incorporated into the bone matrix and gradually released over weeks to years. The amount of bisphosphonate incorporated into adult bone and the subsequent amount available for release back into the systemic circulation is directly related to the dose and duration of bisphosphonate use. There is a potential risk of fetal harm (e.g., skeletal and other abnormalities) if a person becomes pregnant after completing a course of bisphosphonate therapy. The impact of variables such as time between cessation of bisphosphonate therapy to conception, the particular bisphosphonate used, and the route of administration (intravenous vs. oral) on the risk of adverse fetal effects has not been studied.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Discontinue alendronate when pregnancy is recognized. There are no available data on the use of alendronate during human pregnancy to evaluate for a drug-associated risk of adverse outcomes. Based on animal data, bisphosphonates may cause fetal harm. Animal reproductive studies indicate alendronate may result in reduced fetal ossification and protracted parturition. Additionally, maternal hypocalcemia associated with alendronate use resulted in late pregnancy maternal and fetal deaths.


Interactions

Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and aspirin. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and aspirin. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and aspirin. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and aspirin. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Acetaminophen; Ibuprofen: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Aluminum Hydroxide: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and aluminum hydroxide by at least 30 minutes. Aluminum-containing antacids will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Carbonate: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and aluminum hydroxide by at least 30 minutes. Aluminum-containing antacids will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and aluminum hydroxide by at least 30 minutes. Aluminum-containing antacids will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and aluminum hydroxide by at least 30 minutes. Aluminum-containing antacids will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Trisilicate: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and aluminum hydroxide by at least 30 minutes. Aluminum-containing antacids will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Moderate) Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) are widely used and are frequently coadministered in users of oral bisphosphonates. A national register-based, open cohort study of 38,088 elderly patients suggests that those who use proton pump inhibitors in conjunction with alendronate have a dose-dependent loss of protection against hip fracture. While causality was not investigated, the dose-response relationship noted during the study suggested that PPIs may reduce oral alendronate efficacy, perhaps through an effect on absorption or other mechanism, and therefore PPIs may not be optimal agents to control gastrointestinal complaints. It is not yet clear if all bisphosphonates would exhibit a loss of efficacy when PPIs are coadministered, but the results suggest that the interaction may occur across the class.
Aspirin, ASA: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and aspirin. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and aspirin. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and aspirin. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and aspirin. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and aspirin. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Sodium bicarbonate can reduce the absorption of the oral bisphosphonates. Wait at least 30 minutes after oral alendronate, 1 hour after ibandronate, and 2 hours after oral etidronate, risedronate, or tiludronate before taking a sodium bicarbonatecontaining product. (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and aspirin. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Aspirin, ASA; Dipyridamole: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and aspirin. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Moderate) Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) are widely used and are frequently coadministered in users of oral bisphosphonates. A national register-based, open cohort study of 38,088 elderly patients suggests that those who use proton pump inhibitors in conjunction with alendronate have a dose-dependent loss of protection against hip fracture. While causality was not investigated, the dose-response relationship noted during the study suggested that PPIs may reduce oral alendronate efficacy, perhaps through an effect on absorption or other mechanism, and therefore PPIs may not be optimal agents to control gastrointestinal complaints. It is not yet clear if all bisphosphonates would exhibit a loss of efficacy when PPIs are coadministered, but the results suggest that the interaction may occur across the class. (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and aspirin. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and aspirin. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Bumetanide: (Moderate) When the intravenous formulation of alendronate is used for the treatment of hypercalcemia of malignancy, combination therapy with loop diuretics should be used with caution in order to avoid hypocalcemia. In patients with hypercalcemia of malignancy, the initial treatment typically includes the use of loop diuretics, in combination with saline hydration, however, diuretic therapy should not be employed prior to correction of hypovolemia and dehydration.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and aspirin. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Calcium (oral): (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and calcium-containing supplements by at least 30 minutes. Calcium will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Calcium Acetate: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and calcium-containing supplements by at least 30 minutes. Calcium will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Calcium Carbonate: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and calcium-containing supplements by at least 30 minutes. Calcium will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Calcium Carbonate; Famotidine; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and calcium-containing supplements by at least 30 minutes. Calcium will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and calcium-containing supplements by at least 30 minutes. Calcium will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and calcium-containing supplements by at least 30 minutes. Calcium will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Calcium Carbonate; Simethicone: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and calcium-containing supplements by at least 30 minutes. Calcium will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Calcium Gluconate: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and calcium-containing supplements by at least 30 minutes. Calcium will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Calcium; Vitamin D: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and calcium-containing supplements by at least 30 minutes. Calcium will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Calcium; Vitamin D: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and calcium-containing supplements by at least 30 minutes. Calcium will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Celecoxib: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Chromium: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and calcium-containing supplements by at least 30 minutes. Calcium will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Deferasirox: (Moderate) Because gastric ulceration and GI bleeding have been reported in patients taking deferasirox, use caution when coadministering with other drugs known to increase the risk of peptic ulcers or gastric hemorrhage including alendronate.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and iron supplements by at least 30 minutes. Iron will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Dexlansoprazole: (Moderate) Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) are widely used and are frequently coadministered in users of oral bisphosphonates. A national register-based, open cohort study of 38,088 elderly patients suggests that those who use proton pump inhibitors in conjunction with alendronate have a dose-dependent loss of protection against hip fracture. While causality was not investigated, the dose-response relationship noted during the study suggested that PPIs may reduce oral alendronate efficacy, perhaps through an effect on absorption or other mechanism, and therefore PPIs may not be optimal agents to control gastrointestinal complaints. It is not yet clear if all bisphosphonates would exhibit a loss of efficacy when PPIs are coadministered, but the results suggest that the interaction may occur across the class.
Diclofenac: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Diflunisal: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Esomeprazole: (Moderate) Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) are widely used and are frequently coadministered in users of oral bisphosphonates. A national register-based, open cohort study of 38,088 elderly patients suggests that those who use proton pump inhibitors in conjunction with alendronate have a dose-dependent loss of protection against hip fracture. While causality was not investigated, the dose-response relationship noted during the study suggested that PPIs may reduce oral alendronate efficacy, perhaps through an effect on absorption or other mechanism, and therefore PPIs may not be optimal agents to control gastrointestinal complaints. It is not yet clear if all bisphosphonates would exhibit a loss of efficacy when PPIs are coadministered, but the results suggest that the interaction may occur across the class.
Ethacrynic Acid: (Moderate) When the intravenous formulation of alendronate is used for the treatment of hypercalcemia of malignancy, combination therapy with loop diuretics should be used with caution in order to avoid hypocalcemia. In patients with hypercalcemia of malignancy, the initial treatment typically includes the use of loop diuretics, in combination with saline hydration, however, diuretic therapy should not be employed prior to correction of hypovolemia and dehydration.
Etodolac: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Fenoprofen: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Ferric Maltol: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and iron supplements by at least 30 minutes. Iron will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Flurbiprofen: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Food: (Major) Absorption of alendronate is very poor; oral bioavailability is less than 1%. Because of this, food interactions can be very significant. Alendronate oral absorption becomes almost negligible if alendronate is taken within 2 hours of breakfast. Even orange juice or coffee can reduce bioavailability by about 60%. To achieve maximum possible bioavailability alendronate must be taken in the fasting state and at least 2 hours before a standard breakfast.
Furosemide: (Moderate) When the intravenous formulation of alendronate is used for the treatment of hypercalcemia of malignancy, combination therapy with loop diuretics should be used with caution in order to avoid hypocalcemia. In patients with hypercalcemia of malignancy, the initial treatment typically includes the use of loop diuretics, in combination with saline hydration, however, diuretic therapy should not be employed prior to correction of hypovolemia and dehydration.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Ibuprofen: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Indomethacin: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Iron Salts: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and iron supplements by at least 30 minutes. Iron will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Iron Salts: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and iron supplements by at least 30 minutes. Iron will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Iron Sucrose, Sucroferric Oxyhydroxide: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and iron supplements by at least 30 minutes. Iron will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Iron: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and iron supplements by at least 30 minutes. Iron will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Ketoprofen: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Ketorolac: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Lansoprazole: (Moderate) Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) are widely used and are frequently coadministered in users of oral bisphosphonates. A national register-based, open cohort study of 38,088 elderly patients suggests that those who use proton pump inhibitors in conjunction with alendronate have a dose-dependent loss of protection against hip fracture. While causality was not investigated, the dose-response relationship noted during the study suggested that PPIs may reduce oral alendronate efficacy, perhaps through an effect on absorption or other mechanism, and therefore PPIs may not be optimal agents to control gastrointestinal complaints. It is not yet clear if all bisphosphonates would exhibit a loss of efficacy when PPIs are coadministered, but the results suggest that the interaction may occur across the class.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Moderate) Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) are widely used and are frequently coadministered in users of oral bisphosphonates. A national register-based, open cohort study of 38,088 elderly patients suggests that those who use proton pump inhibitors in conjunction with alendronate have a dose-dependent loss of protection against hip fracture. While causality was not investigated, the dose-response relationship noted during the study suggested that PPIs may reduce oral alendronate efficacy, perhaps through an effect on absorption or other mechanism, and therefore PPIs may not be optimal agents to control gastrointestinal complaints. It is not yet clear if all bisphosphonates would exhibit a loss of efficacy when PPIs are coadministered, but the results suggest that the interaction may occur across the class.
Lanthanum Carbonate: (Moderate) To limit absorption problems, the oral bisphosphonates should not be taken within 2 hours of dosing with lanthanum carbonate. Oral drugs known to interact with cationic antacids, like the oral bisphosphonates, may also be bound by lanthanum carbonate. Separating times of administration will maximize absorption and clinical benefit of the bisphosphonate. Separate the times of administration appropriately. Monitor the patient's clinical status and bone density as recommended to ensure the appropriate response to bisphosphonate therapy is obtained.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and iron supplements by at least 30 minutes. Iron will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and iron supplements by at least 30 minutes. Iron will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Levothyroxine: (Moderate) Separating times of administration of alendronate from levothyroxine and other medications will maximize alendronate absorption and clinical benefit. For example, administering the levothyroxine dose at bedtime can avoid this interaction with alendronate. The bioavailability of alendronate was slightly decreased when alendronate and levothyroxine were co-administered to healthy subjects The mean AUC and Cmax of alendronate decreased by 7% and 9%, respectively. Alendronate should always be administered upon arising for the day and at least 30 minutes before the first food, beverage, or other medication of the day. To minimize interactions, levothyroxine is also best taken on an empty stomach with a glass of water.
Levothyroxine; Liothyronine (Porcine): (Moderate) Separating times of administration of alendronate from levothyroxine and other medications will maximize alendronate absorption and clinical benefit. For example, administering the levothyroxine dose at bedtime can avoid this interaction with alendronate. The bioavailability of alendronate was slightly decreased when alendronate and levothyroxine were co-administered to healthy subjects The mean AUC and Cmax of alendronate decreased by 7% and 9%, respectively. Alendronate should always be administered upon arising for the day and at least 30 minutes before the first food, beverage, or other medication of the day. To minimize interactions, levothyroxine is also best taken on an empty stomach with a glass of water.
Loop diuretics: (Moderate) When the intravenous formulation of alendronate is used for the treatment of hypercalcemia of malignancy, combination therapy with loop diuretics should be used with caution in order to avoid hypocalcemia. In patients with hypercalcemia of malignancy, the initial treatment typically includes the use of loop diuretics, in combination with saline hydration, however, diuretic therapy should not be employed prior to correction of hypovolemia and dehydration.
Magnesium Citrate: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and magnesium-containing supplements by at least 30 minutes. Magnesium will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Magnesium Salts: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and magnesium-containing supplements by at least 30 minutes. Magnesium will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Magnesium: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and magnesium-containing supplements by at least 30 minutes. Magnesium will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Meclofenamate Sodium: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Mefenamic Acid: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Meloxicam: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Nabumetone: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Naproxen: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Moderate) Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) are widely used and are frequently coadministered in users of oral bisphosphonates. A national register-based, open cohort study of 38,088 elderly patients suggests that those who use proton pump inhibitors in conjunction with alendronate have a dose-dependent loss of protection against hip fracture. While causality was not investigated, the dose-response relationship noted during the study suggested that PPIs may reduce oral alendronate efficacy, perhaps through an effect on absorption or other mechanism, and therefore PPIs may not be optimal agents to control gastrointestinal complaints. It is not yet clear if all bisphosphonates would exhibit a loss of efficacy when PPIs are coadministered, but the results suggest that the interaction may occur across the class. (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and iron supplements by at least 30 minutes. Iron will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and iron supplements by at least 30 minutes. Iron will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Omeprazole: (Moderate) Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) are widely used and are frequently coadministered in users of oral bisphosphonates. A national register-based, open cohort study of 38,088 elderly patients suggests that those who use proton pump inhibitors in conjunction with alendronate have a dose-dependent loss of protection against hip fracture. While causality was not investigated, the dose-response relationship noted during the study suggested that PPIs may reduce oral alendronate efficacy, perhaps through an effect on absorption or other mechanism, and therefore PPIs may not be optimal agents to control gastrointestinal complaints. It is not yet clear if all bisphosphonates would exhibit a loss of efficacy when PPIs are coadministered, but the results suggest that the interaction may occur across the class.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Moderate) Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) are widely used and are frequently coadministered in users of oral bisphosphonates. A national register-based, open cohort study of 38,088 elderly patients suggests that those who use proton pump inhibitors in conjunction with alendronate have a dose-dependent loss of protection against hip fracture. While causality was not investigated, the dose-response relationship noted during the study suggested that PPIs may reduce oral alendronate efficacy, perhaps through an effect on absorption or other mechanism, and therefore PPIs may not be optimal agents to control gastrointestinal complaints. It is not yet clear if all bisphosphonates would exhibit a loss of efficacy when PPIs are coadministered, but the results suggest that the interaction may occur across the class.
Omeprazole; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) are widely used and are frequently coadministered in users of oral bisphosphonates. A national register-based, open cohort study of 38,088 elderly patients suggests that those who use proton pump inhibitors in conjunction with alendronate have a dose-dependent loss of protection against hip fracture. While causality was not investigated, the dose-response relationship noted during the study suggested that PPIs may reduce oral alendronate efficacy, perhaps through an effect on absorption or other mechanism, and therefore PPIs may not be optimal agents to control gastrointestinal complaints. It is not yet clear if all bisphosphonates would exhibit a loss of efficacy when PPIs are coadministered, but the results suggest that the interaction may occur across the class. (Moderate) Sodium bicarbonate can reduce the absorption of the oral bisphosphonates. Wait at least 30 minutes after oral alendronate, 1 hour after ibandronate, and 2 hours after oral etidronate, risedronate, or tiludronate before taking a sodium bicarbonatecontaining product.
Oxaprozin: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Pantoprazole: (Moderate) Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) are widely used and are frequently coadministered in users of oral bisphosphonates. A national register-based, open cohort study of 38,088 elderly patients suggests that those who use proton pump inhibitors in conjunction with alendronate have a dose-dependent loss of protection against hip fracture. While causality was not investigated, the dose-response relationship noted during the study suggested that PPIs may reduce oral alendronate efficacy, perhaps through an effect on absorption or other mechanism, and therefore PPIs may not be optimal agents to control gastrointestinal complaints. It is not yet clear if all bisphosphonates would exhibit a loss of efficacy when PPIs are coadministered, but the results suggest that the interaction may occur across the class.
Parathyroid Hormone: (Moderate) Coadministration of alendronate with parathyroid hormone (PTH) is not recommended as concomitant use leads to a reduction in the calcium sparing effect, which can interfere with the normalization of serum calcium. The use of PTH alone was superior to use in combination with alendronate in clinical trials. In clinical trials, there was no evidence of synergy between PTH and alendronate. Changes in the volumetric density of trabecular bone, the cortical volume at the hip, and levels of markers of bone turnover suggest that the concurrent use of alendronate may reduce the anabolic effects of PTH. Concurrent use with other bisphosphonates is also controversial. However, sequential use (e.g., PTH followed by anti-resorptive treatment with bisphosphonates) appears to be beneficial and to help maintain beneficial bone effects.
Piroxicam: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Polycarbophil: (Moderate) Coadministration of alendronate with calcium polycarbophil can interfere with the oral absorption of alendronate; do not administer calcium polycarbophil within 30 minutes of alendronate. Each 625 mg of calcium polycarbophil contains a substantial amount of calcium (approximately 125 mg).
Proton pump inhibitors: (Moderate) Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) are widely used and are frequently coadministered in users of oral bisphosphonates. A national register-based, open cohort study of 38,088 elderly patients suggests that those who use proton pump inhibitors in conjunction with alendronate have a dose-dependent loss of protection against hip fracture. While causality was not investigated, the dose-response relationship noted during the study suggested that PPIs may reduce oral alendronate efficacy, perhaps through an effect on absorption or other mechanism, and therefore PPIs may not be optimal agents to control gastrointestinal complaints. It is not yet clear if all bisphosphonates would exhibit a loss of efficacy when PPIs are coadministered, but the results suggest that the interaction may occur across the class.
Pyridoxine, Vitamin B6: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and calcium-containing supplements by at least 30 minutes. Calcium will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
RABEprazole: (Moderate) Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) are widely used and are frequently coadministered in users of oral bisphosphonates. A national register-based, open cohort study of 38,088 elderly patients suggests that those who use proton pump inhibitors in conjunction with alendronate have a dose-dependent loss of protection against hip fracture. While causality was not investigated, the dose-response relationship noted during the study suggested that PPIs may reduce oral alendronate efficacy, perhaps through an effect on absorption or other mechanism, and therefore PPIs may not be optimal agents to control gastrointestinal complaints. It is not yet clear if all bisphosphonates would exhibit a loss of efficacy when PPIs are coadministered, but the results suggest that the interaction may occur across the class.
Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Sodium bicarbonate can reduce the absorption of the oral bisphosphonates. Wait at least 30 minutes after oral alendronate, 1 hour after ibandronate, and 2 hours after oral etidronate, risedronate, or tiludronate before taking a sodium bicarbonatecontaining product.
Sodium Ferric Gluconate Complex; Ferric Pyrophosphate Citrate: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and iron supplements by at least 30 minutes. Iron will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Sodium Sulfate; Magnesium Sulfate; Potassium Chloride: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and magnesium-containing supplements by at least 30 minutes. Magnesium will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Sucralfate: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of oral alendronate with aluminum-containing medications (e.g., sucralfate) may interfere with the absorption of alendronate. Separation of administration is advised. At least 30 minutes should elapse after an alendronate dose before taking aluminum-containing drugs.
Sulindac: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Tolmetin: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Torsemide: (Moderate) When the intravenous formulation of alendronate is used for the treatment of hypercalcemia of malignancy, combination therapy with loop diuretics should be used with caution in order to avoid hypocalcemia. In patients with hypercalcemia of malignancy, the initial treatment typically includes the use of loop diuretics, in combination with saline hydration, however, diuretic therapy should not be employed prior to correction of hypovolemia and dehydration.


Adverse Reaction
General Information

In studies involving IV alendronate , elevated body temperature and elevated hepatic enzymes have been reported. Too rapid IV administration may cause nephrotoxicity secondary to calcium bisphosphonate deposition.

atrial fibrillation


Conflicting data exists regarding the use of bisphosphonates and an increased risk of serious atrial fibrillation. Atrial fibrillation is not specifically reported in pre-marketing study of alendronate. In the HORIZON Pivotal Fracture Trial, the incidence of serious atrial fibrillation (life-threatening or resulting in hospitalization or disability) was significantly higher in patients receiving zoledronic acid than placebo (50 patients or 1.3% versus 20 patients or 0.5%, p value < 0.001), although the incidence of any atrial fibrillation (serious and non-serious) was not different between the 2 groups. Similarly, in a re-analysis of the Fracture Intervention Trial, patients taking alendronate also experienced a trend towards a higher incidence of serious atrial fibrillation versus those taking placebo (47 patients or 1.5% vs. 31 patients or 1%, HR 1.51, 95% CI 0.97—2.40, p=0.07). Similar to the HORIZON trial, any atrial fibrillation was not higher in patients taking alendronate. Post-marketing surveillance of reports of atrial fibrillation in patients receiving oral and intravenous bisphosphonates has not revealed a subset of patients at risk for the adverse effect. In the majority of cases in patients who received zoledronic acid, atrial fibrillation occurred more than 1 month after drug infusion. In order to review the potential risk of atrial fibrillation in patients receiving bisphosphonates, the FDA requested placebo-controlled clinical trial data from manufacturers. Information submitted to the FDA by the 4 manufacturers included data from 19,687 bisphosphonate-treated patients and 18,358 placebo-treated patients who were followed up for 6 months—3 years. After reviewing these data, the FDA concluded that most studies contained 2 or fewer events of atrial fibrillation. The absolute difference in event rates between each of the bisphosphonate and placebo arms varied from 0—3 per 1,000. No association between bisphosphonate exposure and the rate of serious or non-serious atrial fibrillation was found. In addition, an increase in dose or duration of bisphosphonate therapy did not correlate with an increased rate of atrial fibrillation. Because of the conflicting data in the literature, the FDA is exploring the feasibility of conducting additional epidemiologic studies to gather more data. The FDA continues to monitor post-marketing reports of atrial fibrillation in patients who have taken bisphosphonates. Currently, the FDA does not recommend a change in prescribing practices for this class of drugs; a causal relationship has not been identified.


abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, dysgeusia, dyspepsia, dysphagia, esophageal stricture, esophageal ulceration, esophagitis, flatulence, gastritis, gastroesophageal reflux, GI bleeding, GI perforation, melena, nausea, oral ulceration, peptic ulcer, pyrosis (heartburn), vomiting


Adverse effects associated with alendronate during the clinical trials were reported as generally mild and primarily affected the gastrointestinal system. Careful instruction on administration by health care providers and adherence by patients may minimize risk. Abdominal pain was usually the most commonly reported event (0.9% to 6.6%). The following were also reported:  nausea (0 to 3.6%), constipation (0 to 3.1%), diarrhea (0 to 3.1%), dyspepsia (1.1% to 3.6%), flatulence (0 to 4.1%), acid regurgitation (0 to 4.2%) including pyrosis (heartburn), esophageal ulceration (0.1 to 1.5%), gastric or peptic ulcer (0 to 1.1%), dysphagia (0.1% to 1%), abdominal distention (0 to 1.4%), gastritis (0.2% to 1.1%), and taste perversion or dysgeusia (0.1% to 0.5%). With the exception of esophageal ulceration and dysphagia, patients taking placebo also reported similar adverse events. Vomiting (0.2% to 1% of adults) was reported more frequently in children in a 24-month treatment period for osteogenesis imperfecta; 32 of 109 (29.4%) children experienced vomiting compared to 3 of 30 (10%) who received placebo. Effects unique to one study population include gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) (0.7% to 2.8%) in osteoporosis studies in men and melena (0 to 1.3%) in glucocorticoid-induced-osteoporosis patients. Other reported adverse events were similar between alendronate-treated postmenopausal women, men with osteoporosis, and glucocorticoid-induced-osteoporosis patients, with slightly different rates. Patients with Paget's disease taking 40 mg/day appeared to have an increased incidence of upper GI adverse effects compared to post-menopausal osteoporosis patients receiving 10 mg/day. The following additional adverse GI effects have been reported during post-marketing experience: esophagitis, esophageal erosions, esophageal ulcers, and gastric and duodenal ulcers with GI bleeding, esophageal stricture, GI perforation, and oropharyngeal or oral ulceration. Esophageal and oral ulceration occur more frequently when alendronate tablets are chewed or dissolved in the mouth. In post-marketing reports, more than half the women taking alendronate for osteoporosis do not comply with the dosing instructions, which may lead to decreased compliance and effectiveness of the medication and increased adverse reactions. During the Fracture Intervention Trial, the incidence of gastrointestinal adverse events was similar between alendronate 5—10 mg/day and placebo (47.5% vs. 46.2%). It should be noted that women were counseled every 6 months during the trial on the proper administration of alendronate. Age, history of GI disease, and NSAID use were independent risk factors for upper GI events during this study, as reported in other studies as well. All patients with these risk factors had an increased incidence of adverse GI events; there was no difference between those patients treated with alendronate and those treated with placebo in this study.


asthenia, dizziness, fever, headache, lymphopenia, malaise, peripheral edema, vertigo


Headache was reported in 0 to 2.6% of patients taking alendronate during clinical trials. An acute-phase response has been associated with initiation of bisphosphonate therapy, including alendronate. When this reaction occurs in adults (incidence unreported) it usually consists of asthenia, malaise, muscle pain, and rarely fever. In a single dose pharmacokinetic study of pediatric patients with osteogenesis imperfecta, fever, flu-like symptoms, and/or mild lymphopenia were reported within 24 to 48 hours of dose receipt in 6 of the 24 children (i.e., 25%); these effects had a 2 to 3 day duration and responded to acetaminophen. Dizziness, vertigo, and peripheral edema have also been reported in clinical practice with adult patients.


arthralgia, bone pain, muscle cramps, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia


Musculoskeletal pain of the bone, muscle, or joint has been reported in 0.4% to 6% of patients receiving alendronate in clinical trials, the highest incidence among those treated for Paget's disease. Muscle cramps have been reported in 0 to 1.1% of study patients. In addition, bone pain, arthralgia, joint swelling, and myalgia have been reported in patients taking alendronate during post-marketing surveillance. The bone, muscle, and/or joint pain can sometimes be severe and even incapacitating. Pain, particularly dull or achy pain, of the thigh or groin may occur as a prodrome to atypical fracture of the femur; evaluation to rule out incomplete fracture is strongly recommended. The time to onset of musculoskeletal pain symptoms varies from one day to years after drug initiation. Most patients have relief of symptoms after stopping the medication; a subset of patients have had recurrence of symptoms when rechallenged with the same drug or another bisphosphonate. Risk factors for and the incidence of bone, muscle, and/or joint pain are not known. This reaction is different than the acute phase reaction of fever, chills, and bone, muscle, and/or joint pain that accompanies intermittent intravenous or weekly or monthly oral bisphosphonates. The acute phase reaction tends to resolve with continued use. Bisphosphonates should be considered as a cause for any patient who presents with severe musculoskeletal or joint pain; furthermore, if alendronate is determined to be the cause, temporary or permanent discontinuation in drug therapy should be considered.


hypocalcemia, hypophosphatemia


In controlled studies, asymptomatic mild and transient hypocalcemia was seen in 18% of patients on alendronate therapy compared to 12% taking placebo; there have been reports of symptomatic hypocalcemia with post-marketing use. In controlled studies, hypophosphatemia was seen in 10% of patients on alendronate therapy compared to 3% taking placebo.


alopecia, angioedema, erythema, photosensitivity, pruritus, rash (unspecified), Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria


Hypersensitivity reactions including urticaria, angioedema, and acute asthma exacerbations have been reported in post-marketing experience with alendronate. Other reported reactions include pruritus, erythema, alopecia and rash (unspecified) occasionally with photosensitivity. Post-marketing use of alendronate has been associated with reports of Stevens-Johnson Syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis.


conjunctivitis, ocular inflammation, ocular pain, uveitis, visual impairment


Certain ocular reactions are expected to occur with bisphosphonates. There have been post-marketing reports of uveitis, scleritis, and episcleritis with alendronate. Uveitis, nonspecific conjunctivitis, episcleritis, or scleritis have all been reported with pamidronate and are expected to occur with other bisphosphonates as well. Nonspecific conjunctivitis seldom requires treatment and usually decreases in intensity during subsequent exposure to a bisphosphonate. However, no reported case of unilateral or bilateral scleritis resolved until the bisphosphonate was discontinued. More than one ocular side effect can occur at the same time; for instance, episcleritis may occur in conjunction with uveitis. In some instances, the drug may need to be discontinued in order for the ocular inflammation to resolve; for scleritis to resolve the bisphosphonate must be discontinued. Patients with visual impairment or ocular pain should be referred to an ophthalmologist.


osteonecrosis


Osteonecrosis of the jaw has been reported in patients receiving bisphosphonate therapy, including in postmarketing experience of alendronate. Although the majority of patients affected receive either pamidronate or zoledronic acid for the management of metastatic cancer to the bone, there have been reports of osteonecrosis in patients receiving oral bisphosphonate therapy for the treatment of osteoporosis. Most of the reported cases have appeared after dental tooth extraction; however, some cases have appeared spontaneously. It is not possible to determine if the reported events are related to bisphosphonates, concomitant drugs or other therapies (e.g., chemotherapy, radiotherapy, corticosteroid), a patient's underlying disease state, or other comorbid risk factors (e.g., anemia, infection, preexisting oral disease). The risk may increase with duration of exposure to the bisphosphonate. Typical signs and symptoms of osteonecrosis of the jaw include pain, swelling, infection, or poor healing of the gums, loosening of the teeth, numbness or a feeling of heaviness in the jaw, and drainage of exposed bone. If osteonecrosis of the jaw does develop during bisphosphonate therapy, it should be noted that dental surgery may exacerbate the condition. For patients requiring dental work, no data are available to suggest whether discontinuation of bisphosphonate treatment reduces the risk of osteonecrosis of the jaw. The treating physician and dentist should use their best clinical judgment to guide the management plan of each patient based on individual benefit and risk assessments. Based on a review of the available literature, treatments that have been used include local debridement, bone resection or other surgery, antimicrobials, antiseptic mouthwash, and hyperbaric oxygen. While a consensus on the best treatment strategies does not exist, the American Academy of Oral Medicine recommends prevention. Preventive measure include evaluation by a dentist prior to intravenous bisphosphonate initiation and within 3 months of oral bisphosphonate initiation, correction of dental complications prior to drug initiation, and continued regular follow-up with a dentist. For the treatment of osteonecrosis, recommendations include superficial debridement, bone resection when indicated, systemic antimicrobial for infections with culture-directed therapy or penicillin, amoxicillin, or clindamycin empirically, or use of chlorhexidine mouthwash 3 to 4 times daily. Discontinuation of the bisphosphonate once osteonecrosis occurs is controversial as the half-life of bisphosphonates within the bone is estimated to be years. In addition, cholesteatoma of the external auditory canal (a type of focal osteonecrosis) has been reported with the postmarketing use.


bone fractures


Atypical, low-energy, or low trauma bone fractures of the femoral shaft have been reported during treatment with bisphosphonates, including alendronate, in people with osteoporosis. Atypical femur and other fractures most commonly occur with minimal or no trauma to the affected area. These fractures can occur anywhere in the femoral shaft from just below the lesser trochanter to above the supracondylar flare and are transverse or short oblique in orientation without evidence of comminution. Atypical fractures of other bones have also been reported. They may be bilateral. These fractures can also occur in osteoporotic subjects who have not been treated with bisphosphonates. Concomitant treatment with a glucocorticoid may also induce these fractures. Prodromal pain in the affected area, usually presenting as dull, aching thigh pain, weeks to months before a complete fracture occurs was reported by individuals. Other co-morbid conditions associated with the development of atypical femoral fracture include: use of glucocorticoids, other anti-resorptive agents, or proton pump inhibitors, diabetes mellitus, rheumatoid arthritis, or vitamin D-deficiency. Any individual with a history of bisphosphonate exposure who presents with thigh or groin pain should be suspected of having an atypical fracture and should be evaluated to rule out an incomplete femur fracture. Bony pain in other locations should also be considered for evaluation of atypical fracture. Individuals presenting with an atypical fracture should also be assessed for symptoms and signs of fracture in the contralateral limb. Reevaluate the risk and/or benefit of continuing bisphosphonate therapy in these individuals and consider interruption of bisphosphonate therapy.


Description

Alendronate is an oral second-generation bisphosphonate; weekly or daily regimens are available for selected conditions. In postmenopausal adults, alendronate increases bone mass and reduces the incidence of fractures, including those of the hip and spine (vertebral compression fractures). Alendronate and other bisphosphonates are generally considered to be a first-line option for the treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal adults and to increase bone density in men with osteoporosis, due to efficacy, cost and accessibility. Alendronate is also effective and indicated for corticosteroid-induced osteoporosis treatment. For osteoporosis prevention, the second and third-generation bisphosphonates appear to offer similar benefits across the class to increase bone mineral density; the balance of costs, benefits, and harms of treating osteopenic individuals with bisphosphonates is most favorable when the estimated risk for fracture is high.
Alendronate also treats Paget's disease; guidelines for Paget's disease include alendronate as an alternative to zoledronic acid for these patients, as alendronate is known to stabilize osteolytic lesions; however, the effect of alendronate may not be as durable as with zoledronic acid and retreatment may be required between 2 and 6 years. Alendronate has been studied in pediatric patients (4 to 18 years) with severe osteogenesis imperfecta (OI), but was not effective at reducing the risk of fractures. Alendronate was FDA approved in 1995.

Mechanism Of Action

Alendronate is a second-generation bisphosphonate that binds to bone hydroxyapatite and specifically inhibits the activity of osteoclasts, the bone-resorbing cells. Alendronate reduces bone resorption with no direct effect on bone formation, although the latter process is ultimately reduced because bone resorption and formation are coupled during bone turnover. At the cellular level, alendronate shows preferential localization to sites of bone resorption, specifically under osteoclasts. The osteoclasts adhere normally to the bone surface but lack the ruffled border that is indicative of active resorption. Alendronate does not interfere with osteoclast recruitment or attachment, but it does inhibit osteoclast activity. Studies in mice on the localization of radioactive alendronate in bone showed about 10-fold higher uptake on osteoclast surfaces than on osteoblast surfaces. Bones examined 6 and 49 days after radioactive alendronate administration in rats and mice, respectively, showed that normal bone was formed on top of the alendronate, which was incorporated inside the matrix. While incorporated in bone matrix, alendronate is not pharmacologically active. Thus, alendronate must be continuously administered to suppress osteoclasts on newly formed resorption surfaces. Histomorphometry in baboons and rats showed that alendronate treatment reduces bone turnover (i.e., the number of sites at which bone is remodeled). In addition, bone formation exceeds bone resorption at these remodeling sites, leading to progressive gains in bone mass.
 
Like other bisphosphonates, the exact mechanism of alendronate's therapeutic effect in patients with Paget's disease has not been established. Paget's disease is a progressive, idiopathic disease of bone. Increasing numbers of unusually large osteoclasts are produced at affected sites. Increased osteoclastic bone resorption follows, which is compensated for by an increase in osteoblastic bone formation, leading to the replacement of the normal bone architecture by disorganized, enlarged, and weakened bone structure. This new bone architecture is inferior and often deformed, and can fracture easily. Bisphosphonates are believed to reduce the solubility of the mineralized bone matrix by adsorption to hydroxyapatite crystals in the matrix. The matrix becomes less soluble and resistant to osteoclastic resorption, which helps stabilize osteolytic lesions. Alendronate and other bisphosphonates can also block the formation of mature osteoclasts by affecting the attachment of osteoclast precursors to the mineralized matrix. In patients with Paget's disease, alendronate directly decreases bone resorption, resulting in a significant decrease in serum alkaline phosphatase and urinary markers of bone collagen degradation. Bisphosphonates cause histological and radiological evidence of Paget's disease improvement and also reduce pain.
 
Some bisphosphonates cause a significant decrease in serum calcium and urinary calcium levels in patients with hypercalcemia of malignancy, and some bisphosphonate agents in selected cancer patients may reduce osteopenia related to cancer treatment and thus help reduce skeletal events.

Pharmacokinetics

Alendronate is administered orally. Transient distribution into soft tissue is rapidly followed by redistribution to bone or urinary excretion. Alendronate is approximately 78% bound to protein in human plasma. There is no evidence that any metabolism takes place.  Once alendronate is bound to bone, the half-life is more than 10 years. Inhibition of bone resorption diminishes after completion of treatment, suggesting that not all the alendronate sequestered in bone is biologically active. 
Bone resorption in individual remodeling units normally continues for approximately 2 weeks. Due to the long half-life of alendronate in the bone, weekly administration of alendronate should inhibit bone resorption and provide benefits on bone mass and strength to a similar extent as daily administration.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route

Absorption of alendronate is poor, with oral bioavailability of less than 1%.  Cations (e.g., calcium, magnesium) reduce bioavailability. If alendronate is taken within 2 hours of breakfast its bioavailability becomes almost negligible. Even orange juice or coffee can reduce bioavailability by about 60%. To achieve maximum possible bioavailability, alendronate must be taken in the fasting state and at least 2 hours before a standard breakfast. Estimations suggest that the amount of alendronate released from the skeleton daily, after 10 years of daily dosing with 10 mg of alendronate, is 25% of that absorbed from the GI tract.

Intravenous Route

Elimination of alendronate from plasma is rapid, falling 95% within 6 hours of an IV dose. Approximately 50% of a single IV dose is excreted in the urine within 72 hours. 

Renal Impairment

The elimination of alendronate in animals with renal impairment is reduced. Although clinical data does not exist, it is likely that elimination of alendronate in patients with renal insufficiency will also be reduced. Therefore, somewhat greater accumulation of alendronate in the bone of patients with renal impairment may occur. Alendronate is not recommended for use in patients with a CrCl of < 35 mL/min due to a lack of experience and insufficient data in this population.

Pediatrics

The bioavailability of single doses of alendronate 35 mg or 70 mg in children 4—16 years of age with osteogenesis imperfecta is less than 0.6%, which is comparable to the bioavailability of alendronate in adults.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Oral Administration


Administer after the patient has risen for the day. The patient should be sitting or standing. Do not administer alendronate to the patient while the patient is lying down.
Administer with plain water only and at least 30 minutes before the first food, beverage, or other medications of the day. At least 30 minutes should elapse after an alendronate dose before taking any other drugs.
To avoid esophageal irritation, the patient should not lie down for at least 30 minutes after the dose and until after their first food of the day. Do not administer at bedtime or before the patient has risen for the day.
Missed dose of a daily regimen: Instruct the patient not to take a dose later in the day. Instruct the patient to skip the missed dose and to return to the usual schedule the next morning. They should not take 2 doses on the same day.
Missed doses of a once-weekly dose regimen: If a once-weekly dose is missed, instruct the patient to take the dose on the morning after they remember. They should not take 2 doses on the same day but should return to taking 1 dose once a week, as originally scheduled on their chosen day.
Ensure adequate intake of calcium and vitamin D to reduce the risk of treatment-related hypocalcemia.


Oral Solid Formulations

Tablets:
Administer in the morning with a full glass of plain water (180 to 240 mL or 6 to 8 ounces).


Oral Liquid Formulations

Oral Solution:
Use an oral syringe or other calibrated device for accurate dosage.
Administer in the morning with at least 60 mL (2 ounces) of water.
 
Effervescent tablets for oral solution:
Do not have patient swallow the undissolved effervescent tablet; do not chew or allow the tablet to dissolve in the mouth due to the risk of oropharyngeal irritation.
Dissolve 1 tablet in 120 mL (4 ounces) of plain, unflavored, room temperature water only.
After completion of the effervescence, wait at least 5 minutes and then stir the solution for approximately 10 seconds and have the patient ingest.


Injectable Administration


Visually inspect parenteral products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.


Intravenous Administration

NOTE: Alendronate is not approved by the FDA for intravenous administration. An intravenous product is not available in the U.S.
Dilute dose in 250 mL or 500 mL 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection.
Do not mix with any other drug products.
An IV infusion time of 2 to 6 hours has been recommended.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

10 mg/day PO or 70 mg/week PO for osteoporosis. For Paget's disease 40 mg/day PO for 6 months.

Geriatric

10 mg/day PO or 70 mg/week PO for osteoporosis. For Paget's disease 40 mg/day PO for 6 months.

Adolescents

Weighing 30 kg or more: Safety and efficacy have not been established; however, 10 mg/day PO has been used off-label for osteogenesis imperfecta.
Weighing less than 30 kg: Safety and efficacy have not been established; however, 5 mg/day PO has been used off-label for osteogenesis imperfecta.

Children

3 to 12 years weighing 30 kg or more: Safety and efficacy have not been established; however, 10 mg/day PO has been used off-label for osteogenesis imperfecta.
3 to 12 years weighing less than 30 kg: Safety and efficacy have not been established; however, 5 mg/day PO has been used off-label for osteogenesis imperfecta.
1 to 2 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

Alendronate Sodium 10mg Oral tablet

Alendronate Sodium 35mg Oral tablet, weekly

Alendronate Sodium 5mg Oral tablet

Alendronate Sodium 70mg Oral tablet, weekly

Alendronate Sodium 70mg/75mL Oral solution, weekly

Fosamax 70mg Tablet

Fosamax Plus D 70mg-2800units Tablet

Fosamax Plus D 70mg-5600units Tablet

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

No dosage adjustment is needed.

Renal Impairment

CrCl 35 mL/minute or more: No dosage adjustment is needed.
CrCl less than 35 mL/minute: Not recommended.

© 2026 Elsevier