=== Afamitresgene autoleucel — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 5549)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Afamitresgene autoleucel is a melanoma-associated antigen A4 (MAGE-A4)-directed genetically modified autologous T cell receptor (TCR) immunotherapy indicated for the treatment of adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older with unresectable or metastatic synovial sarcoma who have...

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 10 x 10^9 MAGE-A4 T cell receptor (TCR) positive T cells.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): amnesia, aphasia, confusion, dizziness, drowsiness, dysarthria, encephalopathy, headache, insomnia, peripheral neuropathy, anemia, bone marrow suppression, leukopenia, lymphopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, ascites, edema, fluid retention, hypervolemia, peripheral edema, pleural effusion

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: HLA-A*02:05P-positive The use of afamitresgene autoleucel is contraindicated in patients who are HLA-A*02:05P-positive, including those that are heterozygous or homozygous for HLA-A*02:05P. Although similar or greater responses were observed in cell lines that expressed HLA-A*02:05 compared to... Emetic risk: Low

AFAMITRESGENE AUTOLEUCEL

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Tecelra

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of synovial sarcoma

For the treatment of MAGE-A4-positive unresectable or metastatic synovial sarcoma in patients who have received prior chemotherapy and are HLA-A*02:01P, -A*02:02P, -A*02:03P, or -A*02:06P positive
Intravenous dosage
Adults


1.62 x 10^9 to 10 x 10^9 MAGE-A4 T cell receptor (TCR) positive T cells IV on day 1. Administer with the recommended premedication. Ensure that tocilizumab and emergency equipment are available at the facility site prior to the infusion and during the recovery period. Additionally, confirm that afamitresgene autoleucel is available prior to starting the lymphocyte depletion regimen. Lymphocyte depletion therapy consists of fludarabine (30 mg/m2 IV daily for 4 days on day -7, -6, -5, -4) plus cyclophosphamide (600 mg/m2 IV daily for 3 days on day -7, -6, -5). Granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) may be administered at physicians' discretion, beginning 24 hours after the last day of fludarabine (day -3) until resolution of neutropenia. Treatment with afamitresgene autoleucel resulted in an overall response rate of 43.8% (complete response, 3.6%) in HLA-A*02:01P, HLA-A*02:02P, HLA-A*02:03P, and HLA-A*02:06P allele positive patients (age range, 13 to 73 years) with inoperable or metastatic synovial sarcoma who had received prior systemic therapy with doxorubicin or ifosfamide and whose tumor expressed MAGE-A4 (n = 137) in a multicenter, single-arm clinical trial (SPEARHEAD-1); 93% of patients were HLA-A*02:01P. In the overall population (cohorts 1, 2, 3), the median time to response was 4.6 weeks and the duration of response was 5.3 months; the duration of response was at least 6 months in 48.3% of patients, at least 12 months in 31.9% of patients, and at least 24 months in 31.9% of patients. The median dose of afamitresgene autoleucel was 7 x 10^9 MAGE-A4 TCR positive T cells and 40% of patients received bridging therapy between leukapheresis and the initiation of lymphodepletion.


Children and Adolescents 12 years and older


1.62 x 10^9 to 10 x 10^9 MAGE-A4 T cell receptor (TCR) positive T cells IV on day 1. Administer with the recommended premedication. Ensure that tocilizumab and emergency equipment are available at the facility site prior to the infusion and during the recovery period. Additionally, confirm that afamitresgene autoleucel is available prior to starting the lymphocyte depletion regimen. Lymphocyte depletion therapy consists of fludarabine (30 mg/m2 IV daily for 4 days on day -7, -6, -5, -4) plus cyclophosphamide (600 mg/m2 IV daily for 3 days on day -7, -6, -5). Granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) may be administered at physicians' discretion, beginning 24 hours after the last day of fludarabine (day -3) until resolution of neutropenia. Treatment with afamitresgene autoleucel resulted in an overall response rate of 43.8% (complete response, 3.6%) in HLA-A*02:01P, HLA-A*02:02P, HLA-A*02:03P, and HLA-A*02:06P allele positive patients (age range, 13 to 73 years) with inoperable or metastatic synovial sarcoma who had received prior systemic therapy with doxorubicin or ifosfamide and whose tumor expressed MAGE-A4 (n = 137) in a multicenter, single-arm clinical trial (SPEARHEAD-1); 93% of patients were HLA-A*02:01P. In the overall population (cohorts 1, 2, 3), the median time to response was 4.6 weeks and the duration of response was 5.3 months; the duration of response was at least 6 months in 48.3% of patients, at least 12 months in 31.9% of patients, and at least 24 months in 31.9% of patients. The median dose of afamitresgene autoleucel was 7 x 10^9 MAGE-A4 TCR positive T cells and 40% of patients received bridging therapy between leukapheresis and the initiation of lymphodepletion.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

HLA-A*02:05P-positive


The use of afamitresgene autoleucel is contraindicated in patients who are HLA-A*02:05P-positive, including those that are heterozygous or homozygous for HLA-A*02:05P. Although similar or greater responses were observed in cell lines that expressed HLA-A*02:05 compared to HLA-A*02:01 in preclinical studies, afamitresgene autoleucel showed nonpeptide-specific alloreactivity toward several of these cell types. Common in the mismatched allogeneic stem-cell transplant setting, alloreactivity would be a potential safety risk for patients with HLA-A*02:05P receiving afamitresgene autoleucel therapy and thus these patients were excluded from clinical trials.


Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, may occur due to dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) in afamitresgene autoleucel.

cytokine release syndrome


Cytokine release syndrome (CRS) is a potentially fatal reaction that has been reported with afamitresgene autoleucel therapy. Ensure patients are euvolemic prior to beginning the afamitresgene autoleucel infusion; health care providers administering afamitresgene autoleucel must have immediate access to medications to manage CRS and resuscitative equipment.


inflammatory disorder


Do not administer afamitresgene autoleucel in patients with active infection and/or inflammatory disorder. Use afamitresgene autoleucel with caution in patients with recent infection. Serious infections may occur following lymphodepleting chemotherapy and afamitresgene autoleucel infusion. Screen for viral infection prior to initiating therapy; consider antiviral prophylaxis per local guidelines.


activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery, neurological disease


Use afamitresgene autoleucel with caution in patients with a history of neurological disease (e.g., seizures, stroke, confusion, or memory loss). Immune effector cell-associated neurotoxicity syndrome (ICANS) has been observed following afamitresgene autoleucel therapy. Advise patients to avoid driving or operating machinery or performing other dangerous duties or activities requiring coordination and concentration for 2 weeks after the afamitresgene autoleucel infusion due to the risk of neurotoxicity (e.g., dizziness, presyncope). Evaluate patients for hospitalization and institute treatment with supportive care based on severity; consider further management per current practice guidelines.


people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk


Counsel people who may become pregnant about the reproductive risk associated with afamitresgene autoleucel. Verify pregnancy status in those of reproductive potential prior to starting treatment. There is insufficient exposure data to provide a recommendation for the duration of contraception following treatment.


breast-feeding


Use afamitresgene autoleucel with caution during breast-feeding. There is no information regarding the presence of afamitresgene autoleucel in human milk, its effect on the breastfed child, or its effects on milk production.


blood, organ, tissue, or cell donor


Patients must avoid being a blood, organ, tissue, or cell donor during treatment with afamitresgene autoleucel.


pregnancy


Use of afamitresgene autoleucel during pregnancy is not recommended. No human or animal reproductive or developmental toxicity studies have been conducted. It is unknown if afamitresgene autoleucel has the potential to be transferred to the fetus or if it may cause fetal harm. In a clinical trial, 1 patient became pregnant 6 months following treatment with afamitresgene autoleucel and the outcome of the pregnancy was premature birth (30 weeks gestation) with a healthy infant. Report all pregnancies following treatment to 1-855-246-9232.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Use of afamitresgene autoleucel during pregnancy is not recommended. No human or animal reproductive or developmental toxicity studies have been conducted. It is unknown if afamitresgene autoleucel has the potential to be transferred to the fetus or if it may cause fetal harm. In a clinical trial, 1 patient became pregnant 6 months following treatment with afamitresgene autoleucel and the outcome of the pregnancy was premature birth (30 weeks gestation) with a healthy infant. Report all pregnancies following treatment to 1-855-246-9232.


Interactions

There are no drug interactions associated with Afamitresgene autoleucel products.

Adverse Reaction
cytokine release syndrome


Cytokine release syndrome (CRS) occurred in 72% (grade 3 or higher, 2%) of patients with synovial sarcoma treated with afamitresgene autoleucel in a multicenter, single-arm trial; the most common symptoms were fever (97%), tachycardia (58%), hypotension (31%), nausea/vomiting (26%), and headache (21%). The median time to onset was 2 days and the median time to resolution was 3 days. Management of CRS included tocilizumab (40%), siltuximab (1 patient), and corticosteroids (8 patients). Closely monitor patients for signs and symptoms of CRS during administration, and for at least 7 days after treatment at the health care facility; continue to monitor for CRS for at least 2 weeks after treatment. Counsel patients about the signs and symptoms of CRS and advise them to seek medical attention immediately; begin supportive care and evaluate patients for hospitalization at the first sign of CRS.


immune effector cell-associated neurotoxicity syndrome, neurotoxicity


Immune Effector Cell-associated Neurotoxicity Syndrome (ICANS) occurred (grade 1 and 2, 4%) in patients with synovial sarcoma treated with afamitresgene autoleucel in a multicenter, single-arm trial. Symptoms included a mild case of altered mental status; other symptoms may include disorientation to time and place, mild drowsiness, mild inattention, altered level of consciousness, seizures, cerebral edema, impaired cognition, progressive aphasia, and motor weakness. The time to onset was 2 to 8 days and resolution occurred in 1 to 7 days. Closely monitor patients for signs and symptoms of ICANS during administration, and for at least 7 days after treatment at the health care facility; continue to monitor for ICANS for at least 2 weeks after treatment. Counsel patients about the signs and symptoms of ICANS and advise them to seek medical attention immediately; begin supportive care and evaluate patients for hospitalization at the first sign of ICANS. Advise patients to avoid driving or operating machinery or performing other hazardous activities for 2 weeks after the afamitresgene autoleucel infusion due to the risk of neurotoxicity (e.g., dizziness, presyncope).


amnesia, aphasia, confusion, dizziness, drowsiness, dysarthria, encephalopathy, headache, insomnia, peripheral neuropathy


Headache (26%; grade 3 or higher, 2%), dizziness (16%), encephalopathy (12%), insomnia (12%), and peripheral neuropathy (10%) occurred in patients with synovial sarcoma treated with afamitresgene autoleucel in a multicenter, single-arm trial. Headache was also one of the most common manifestations of cytokine release syndrome (CRS), occurring in 21% of patients with CRS. The term encephalopathy included amnesia, aphasia, cognitive disorder, confusion, dysarthria, dysgeusia, and somnolence/drowsiness.


anemia, bone marrow suppression, leukopenia, lymphopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia


Severe bone marrow suppression including anemia, leukopenia, lymphopenia, neutropenia and thrombocytopenia has been reported for several weeks following lymphodepleting chemotherapy with fludarabine and cyclophosphamide followed by afamitresgene autoleucel therapy. In a multicenter, single-arm trial, patients with synovial sarcoma experienced decreases from baseline in lymphocytes (grade 3 or higher, 100%), neutrophils (96%; grade 3 or higher, 89%), leukocytes (98%; grade 3 or higher, 88%), red blood cells (95%; grade 3 or higher, 24%), and platelets (86%; grade 3 or higher, 18%). The median time to resolution was 9 weeks for thrombocytopenia, 7 weeks for neutropenia, and 6.4 weeks for anemia. Growth factors may be administered at the physician's discretion at least 24 hours after myelosuppressive chemotherapy (day -3) and until count recovery according to local institutional guidelines and clinical practice.


elevated hepatic enzymes


Elevated hepatic enzymes including increased AST (60%; grade 3 or 4, 6%) and ALT (47%; grade 3 or 4, 6%) occurred in patients with synovial sarcoma treated with afamitresgene autoleucel in a multicenter, single-arm trial.


infection


Infection occurred in 35% (grade 3 or higher, 12%) of patients with synovial sarcoma who received lymphodepleting chemotherapy with fludarabine and cyclophosphamide followed by afamitresgene autoleucel in a multicenter, single-arm trial. Febrile neutropenia (10%) was also observed and may be concurrent with cytokine release syndrome. Do not administer afamitresgene autoleucel to patients with active infection. Monitor patients for infection and treat appropriately; in the event of febrile neutropenia, evaluate for infection and administer broad-spectrum antibiotics and other supportive care as medically indicated.


anorexia


Decreased appetite/anorexia (18%; grade 3 or higher, 2%) occurred in patients with synovial sarcoma treated with afamitresgene autoleucel in a multicenter, single-arm trial.


abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting


Gastrointestinal adverse effects reported in patients with synovial sarcoma treated with afamitresgene autoleucel in a multicenter, single-arm trial included nausea (64%; grade 3 or higher, 4%), vomiting (28%; grade 3 or higher, 2%), constipation (29%; grade 3 or higher, 1%), diarrhea (25%), and abdominal pain (18%; grade 3 or higher, 4%). Nausea and/or vomiting were also among the most common manifestations of cytokine release syndrome (CRS), occurring in 26% of patients with CRS.


fatigue


Fatigue (53%; grade 3 or higher, 2%) occurred in patients with synovial sarcoma treated with afamitresgene autoleucel in a multicenter, single-arm trial.


musculoskeletal pain


Musculoskeletal pain (44%; grade 3 or higher, 4%) was reported in patients with synovial sarcoma treated with afamitresgene autoleucel in a multicenter, single-arm trial.


chills, fever


Fever (30%; grade 3 or higher, 2%) and chills (15%) occurred in patients with synovial sarcoma treated with afamitresgene autoleucel in a multicenter, single-arm trial. Fever was one of the most common manifestations of cytokine release syndrome (CRS), occurring in 97% of patients with CRS. Advise patients to seek medical attention immediately for fever or chills.


cough, dyspnea


Cough (25%) and dyspnea (20%; grade 3 or higher, 4%) occurred in patients with synovial sarcoma treated with afamitresgene autoleucel in a multicenter, single-arm trial.


ascites, edema, fluid retention, hypervolemia, peripheral edema, pleural effusion


Edema (21%; grade 3 or higher, 2%) occurred in patients with synovial sarcoma treated with afamitresgene autoleucel in a multicenter, single-arm trial. The term edema included ascites, face edema, fluid retention, hypervolemia, peripheral edema, pleural effusion, and swelling.


hypertension, hypotension


Hypotension (18%; grade 3 or higher, 2%) and hypertension (11%; grade 3 or higher, 2%) occurred in patients with synovial sarcoma treated with afamitresgene autoleucel in a multicenter, single-arm trial. Hypotension was also one of the most common manifestations of cytokine release syndrome (CRS), occurring in 31% of patients with CRS.


sinus tachycardia


Sinus tachycardia/tachycardia occurred in 22% of patients with synovial sarcoma treated with afamitresgene autoleucel in a multicenter, single-arm trial. Tachycardia was one of the most common manifestations of cytokine release syndrome (CRS), occurring in 58% of patients with CRS.


alopecia


Alopecia (12%) occurred in patients with synovial sarcoma who received lymphodepleting chemotherapy with fludarabine and cyclophosphamide followed by afamitresgene autoleucel in a multicenter, single-arm trial.


new primary malignancy


A new primary malignancy or recurrence of cancer may occur in patients treated with afamitresgene autoleucel. If a new primary malignancy occurs, contact 1-855-246-9232 to obtain instructions on patient samples to collect for testing.


laboratory test interference


False-positive HIV test results may occur in patients treated with afamitresgene autoleucel. The lentiviral vector used to reprogram T-cells has limited, short spans of genetic material which are identical to HIV and may result in laboratory test interference with commercial HIV-1 nucleic acid amplification testing (NAAT). Consider alternative testing methods for HIV (e.g., assays that target p24 antigen and anti-HIV-1 antibodies or the integrase gene).


rash


Rash (20%; grade 3 or higher, 2%) occurred in patients with synovial sarcoma treated with afamitresgene autoleucel in a multicenter, single-arm trial.


bleeding


Bleeding/hemorrhage (19%; grade 3 or higher, 2%) occurred in patients with synovial sarcoma treated with afamitresgene autoleucel in a multicenter, single-arm trial.


nephrotoxicity


Nephrotoxicity including renal insufficiency (11%; grade 3 or higher, 1%) occurred in patients with synovial sarcoma treated with afamitresgene autoleucel in a multicenter, single-arm trial.


Description

Afamitresgene autoleucel is a melanoma-associated antigen A4 (MAGE-A4)-directed genetically modified autologous T cell receptor (TCR) immunotherapy indicated for the treatment of adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older with unresectable or metastatic synovial sarcoma who have received prior chemotherapy, are HLA-A*02:01P, -A*02:02P, -A*02:03P, or-A*02:06P positive and whose tumor expresses the MAGE-A4 antigen as determined by FDA-approved or cleared companion diagnostic devices. Afamitresgene autoleucel was approved by the FDA in August 2024. Employ universal precautions in handling leukapheresis material and potentially infectious diseases. Afamitresgene autoleucel contains human blood cells that are genetically modified with a replication incompetent, self-inactivating lentiviral vector. Follow local biosafety guidelines applicable for disposal of such products. Afamitresgene autoleucel is contraindicated in patients heterozygous or homozygous for the HLA-A*02:05P allele due to a risk of allogenicity.

Mechanism Of Action

Afamitresgene autoleucel is genetically modified autologous T cell receptor (TCR) immunotherapy consisting of CD4- and CD8-positive T cells transduced with a self-inactivating lentiviral vector (c1032 LV) that expresses affinity-enhanced TCR specific for human melanoma-associated antigen A4 (MAGE-A4) on the cell surface. MAGE-A4 is an intracellular cancer-testis antigen that has restricted expression in normal tissues but is expressed in synovial sarcoma. A "restricting HLA" is the specific HLA allele that presents an antigen to the TCR. Afamitresgene autoleucel recognizes an HLA-A*02 restricted MAGE-A4 peptide. Antigen-specific activation of afamitresgene autoleucel via the TCR/MAGE-A4/HLA-A*02 complex results in T cell proliferation, cytokine secretion, and killing of MAGE-A4/HLA-A*02 expressing synovial sarcoma cells.
Alloreactivity, as can occur in the mismatched allogeneic transplant setting, occurs with TCR immunotherapy when a TCR for a specific peptide-HLA complex has cross-reactivity for different HLA alleles. In a preclinical study, afamitresgene autoleucel displayed strong alloreactivity to cells that expressed HLA-A*02:05, but not other HLA-A2 alleles. Due to a lack of cell-type specificity to the reaction, it is either not peptide-specific or is directed toward a peptide from a commonly expressed protein. Because of the associated risk, patients expressing HLA-A*02:05 were excluded from clinical studies with afamitresgene autoleucel.

Pharmacokinetics

Afamitresgene autoleucel is administered intravenously. Afamitresgene autoleucel exhibited an initial engraftment and expansion phase followed by contraction and then persistence, with high inter-individual variability.
Pharmacodynamics: In vitro potency toward peptides presented by HLA-A*02:01, 02:02, 02:03, and 02:06 were comparable; the response of afamitresgene autoleucel to peptides presented by HLA-A*02:07 was more than 10-fold less potent compared to 02:01. Cell lines expressing HLA-A*02:05 had similar or greater responses compared with 02:01; however, HLA-A*02:05 is an exclusion allele due to preclinical alloreactivity. In adults, serum concentrations of cytokines and other soluble factors involved in cellular homeostasis, T cell activation, and inflammation (e.g., interferon-gamma, interleukin (IL)-6, GMCSF, IL-8, and IL-2R-alpha) increased post-infusion and peaked between days 3 to 8; IL-15 increased following lymphodepletion.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 (CYP) isoenzymes and drug transporters: None

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Intravenous Route

After a dose of afamitresgene autoleucel between 1.01 to 10 x 10^9 MAGE-A4 T cell receptor (TCR)-positive T cells in adults, the geometric mean Cmax was 173,711 DNA copies/mcg (CV, 107.5%); the median Tmax was 7 days. The geometric mean AUC at 7 days, 28 days, 3 months, and 6 months was 637,779 days*DNA copies/mcg (CV, 124.7%), 2,890,645 days*DNA copies/mcg (CV, 148.2%), 5,616,053 days*DNA copies/mcg (CV, 215.4%), and 7,887,007 days*DNA copies/mcg (CV, 261%).

Hepatic Impairment

Hepatic impairment studies of afamitresgene autoleucel were not conducted.

Renal Impairment

Renal impairment studies of afamitresgene autoleucel were not conducted.

Pediatrics

After a dose of afamitresgene autoleucel between 1.91 to 9.83 x 10^9 MAGE-A4 TCR-positive T cells in pediatric patients 12 years and older, the geometric mean Cmax was 165,404 DNA copies/mcg (CV, 96%); the median Tmax was 1 day. The geometric mean AUC at 7 days, 28 days, 3 months, and 6 months was 554,042 days*DNA copies/mcg (CV, 95.4%), 2,430,667 days*DNA copies/mcg (CV, 179.4%), 8,415,429 days*DNA copies/mcg (CV, 178%), and 12,390,017 days*DNA copies/mcg (CV, 193%).
Pharmacodynamics: In pediatric patients, serum concentrations of cytokines and other soluble factors involved in cellular homeostasis, T cell activation, and inflammation (e.g., interferon-gamma, IL-6, GMCSF, and IL-2R-alpha) increased post-infusion and peaked between days 3 to 8; IL-15 increased following lymphodepletion.

Geriatric

Age did not affect the pharmacokinetics of afamitresgene autoleucel.

Gender Differences

Sex did not affect the pharmacokinetics of afamitresgene autoleucel.

Obesity

Body weight and body mass index (BMI) did not affect the pharmacokinetics of afamitresgene autoleucel.

Other

Baseline tumor sum of longest diameter (SLD) did not affect the pharmacokinetics of afamitresgene autoleucel.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
NOTE: Employ universal precautions in handling leukapheresis material and potentially infectious diseases. Afamitresgene autoleucel contains human blood cells that are genetically modified with a replication incompetent, self-inactivating lentiviral vector. Follow local biosafety guidelines applicable for disposal of such products.
 
Emetic Risk
Low
Administer routine antiemetic prophylaxis prior to treatment.
Premedications
Premedicate with acetaminophen and an H1-antihistamine (e.g., diphenhydramine) approximately 30 to 60 minutes prior to administration, according to institutional standards.
Avoid administration of prophylactic corticosteroids due to possible decreased effects of treatment.


Injectable Administration

Visually inspect the contents of the infusion bag(s) for obvious signs of damage prior to administration. Do not infuse the contents if the bag is compromised or if clumps do not disperse after thawing and gentle mixing and call 1-855-246-9232.

Intravenous Administration


For autologous use only.
Plan for afamitresgene autoleucel to arrive prior to beginning lymphodepleting chemotherapy.
Confirm infusion time with the patient in advance to ensure the dose is thawed and available when the patient is ready.
One or more infusion bag(s) may be required for a full dose of afamitresgene autoleucel. Verify the number of bags received prior to preparation.
Afamitresgene autoleucel is shipped directly to the health care facility in the vapor phase of a liquid nitrogen shipper. Ensure storage conditions in the vapor phase of liquid nitrogen (less than or equal to negative 130 degrees C). Upon arrival, transfer afamitresgene autoleucel in the original packaging containing the cassette (protecting the infusion bags) to onsite storage at less than or equal to negative 130 degrees C before the shipper expires.
Preparation
Match the patient's identity with the patient identifiers on each cassette of afamitresgene autoleucel. Do not remove the afamitresgene autoleucel infusion bag(s) from the cassette(s) if the information does not match. Contact 1-855-246-9232 if there are any discrepancies.
Remove the afamitresgene autoleucel infusion bag(s) from the cassette(s) and ensure the patient identifiers on the cassette label(s) match the identifiers on the bag label(s). Contact 1-855-246-9232 if there are any discrepancies.
Do not thaw the infusion bag until it is ready to be used.
If more than one bag will be infused, thaw and administer the contents of each infusion bag completely before proceeding to thaw and infuse the contents of the next bag.
Place the infusion bag inside a second sealable, preferably sterile bag.
Thaw the infusion bag at approximately 37 degrees C using a water bath or dry thaw method until there is no visible ice in the infusion bag. Disperse visible cell clumps by gently massaging. Do not infuse afamitresgene autoleucel clumps that are not dispersed and call 1-855-246-9232.
Do not pre-filter into a different container, wash, spin down, or resuspend afamitresgene autoleucel in new media prior to infusion.
Storage after thawing: Once thawed, keep at ambient temperature (20 to 25 degrees C). Administer within 1 hour.
Intravenous Infusion
Do not use a leukodepleting filter.
Confirm patient identity with the patient identifiers on the infusion bag.
Prime the tubing of the infusion set with 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection prior to infusion.
Administer the entire contents of each afamitresgene autoleucel infusion bag via IV infusion within 1 hour.
Rinse the infusion bag with approximately 50 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection to ensure all product is delivered.
If more than 1 infusion bag has been received, completely administer the contents of each infusion bag before proceeding to thaw and infusion the contents of the next infusion bag.
Observe patients during the infusion for hypersensitivity reactions.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

10 x 10^9 MAGE-A4 T cell receptor (TCR) positive T cells.

Geriatric

10 x 10^9 MAGE-A4 T cell receptor (TCR) positive T cells.

Adolescents

10 x 10^9 MAGE-A4 T cell receptor (TCR) positive T cells.

Children

12 years and older: 10 x 10^9 MAGE-A4 T cell receptor (TCR) positive T cells.
Younger than 12 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

Tecelra Suspension for Infusion

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Studies of afamitresgene autoleucel in patients with hepatic impairment were not conducted.

Renal Impairment

Studies of afamitresgene autoleucel in patients with hepatic impairment were not conducted.

© 2026 Elsevier