=== Dutasteride/Tamsulosin (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 3697)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: NOTE:

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: One capsule (0.5 mg dutasteride/0.4 mg tamsulosin) per day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): decreased ejaculate volume, ejaculation dysfunction, impotence (erectile dysfunction), libido decrease, orgasm dysfunction, testicular pain, testicular swelling, atrial fibrillation, chest pain (unspecified), dizziness, dyspnea, hypotension, orthostatic hypotension, palpitations, syncope, vertigo, blurred vision, floppy iris syndrome, visual impairment, angioedema, edema, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, pruritus, rash (unspecified), stevens-johnson syndrome, urticaria, asthenia, back pain, cough

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Cross-sensitivity of dutasteride with other 5-alpha-reductase inhibitors is possible. Hazardous drug: NIOSH 2024 List: Table 2

Brand Names
  - Jalyn

Dosage Forms
  - Dutasteride 0.5mg, Tamsulosin Hydrochloride 0.4mg Oral capsule
  - Jalyn 0.5mg-0.4mg Capsule

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        0.5 mg dutasteride; 0.4 mg tamsulosin PO once daily.
    Heading
    For the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH)

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Cross-sensitivity of dutasteride with other 5-alpha-reductase inhibitors is possible. Tamsulosin is a non-arylamine sulfonamide derivative. Caution is advised when administering tamsulosin-containing products to individuals with serious or life-threatening sulfa allergy, as allergic reactions have rarely been reported. Non-arylamine sulfonamide derivatives (e.g., tamsulosin) may have a lower risk of allergic reactions in patients with sulfonamide allergy, presumably due to the lack of one of the proposed structural sites of action for sulfonamide allergy (arylamine group in the N4 position).
    Headline
    activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery
    General Information
    As with other alpha-adrenergic antagonists, dutasteride; tamsulosin may cause orthostatic hypotension (postural hypotension, dizziness, and/or vertigo), which can lead to syncope. People starting treatment with dutasteride; tamsulosin should be cautioned to avoid situations where syncope could result in an injury, such as driving or operating machinery or completing other activities requiring coordination and concentration, until they are reasonably certain that dutasteride; tamsulosin does not affect them adversely.
    Headline
    prostate cancer
    General Information
    Prior to initiating treatment with dutasteride; tamsulosin, consideration should be given to other urological conditions that may cause similar symptoms, including the presence of pre-existing prostate cancer. Benign prostatic hypertrophy and prostate cancer may coexist. 5 alpha-reductase inhibitors, including dutasteride, may increase the risk of development of high-grade prostate cancer. Careful monitoring and assessment of prostate specific antigen (PSA) tests is needed during dutasteride; tamsulosin use in all treated individuals, and especially in people with existing prostate cancer or at risk for prostate cancer.
    Headline
    Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure
    General Information
    Dutasteride; tamsulosin should be used with caution in patients with hepatic failure; data are limited regarding the incidence of adverse effects or drug accumulation in these patients. Dutasteride is extensively metabolized by the liver and exposure could be higher in hepatically-impaired individuals. People with mild to moderate impairment do not require an adjustment in tamsulosin dosage, but tamsulosin has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C) or hepatic failure and caution is advised.
    Headline
    blood donor
    General Information
    People treated with dutasteride; tamsulosin should not be a blood donor until at least 6 months have passed following their last dose. The purpose of this deferred period is to prevent administration of dutasteride to a pregnant individual receiving a blood transfusion. Serum levels of dutasteride are detectable for 4 to 6 months following termination of therapy.
    Headline
    planned procedure
    General Information
    The initiation of dutasteride; tamsulosin is not recommended for people who have a planned procedure for cataract or glaucoma surgery scheduled. Use caution in patients currently taking dutasteride; tamsulosin who will have these procedures. Intraoperative Floppy Iris Syndrome (IFIS) has been observed during ocular surgery for cataracts and glaucoma in patients on or previously treated with alpha-1 blockers, including tamsulosin. This variant of small pupil syndrome is characterized by the combination of a flaccid iris that billows in response to intraoperative irrigation current, progressive intraoperative miosis despite preoperative dilation with standard mydriatic medications, and potential prolapse of the iris toward the phacoemulsification incisions. The patient's surgeon should be prepared for possible modifications to their surgical technique, such as the utilization of iris hooks, iris dilator rings, or viscoelastic substances. There does not appear to be a benefit in stopping alpha-1 blocker therapy such as tamsulosin prior to cataract surgery.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Dutasteride; tamsulosin is contraindicated for use during pregnancy. In animal reproduction and developmental toxicity studies, dutasteride inhibited development of the external genitalia in the male fetus. Dutasteride is a 5-alpha-reductase inhibitor and prevents conversion of testosterone to dihydrotestosterone (DHT), a hormone necessary for the normal development of male genitalia. Advise pregnant individuals not to handle dutasteride; tamsulosin capsules due to the potential for dutasteride exposure through the skin and unintended fetal exposure. If a pregnant or potentially pregnant individual comes in contact with a leaking capsule, the contact area should be washed with soap and water immediately. Although dutasteride is secreted into human semen, the concentration of dutasteride in semen that is available for vaginal absorption is approximately 100 times less than concentrations that produce abnormalities of male genitalia in animal studies. Dutasteride is more than 96% protein bound in human semen, which may reduce the amount of dutasteride available for vaginal absorption.
    Headline
    people who can cause pregnancy in others, people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel patients about the reproductive risk associated with dutasteride; tamsulosin. In people who can cause pregnancy in others, dutasteride may decrease sperm count, sperm motility, and semen volume. Ejaculation disorders have been associated with tamsulosin, and studies revealed significantly reduced fertility in male animals, considered to be due to impairment of ejaculation, which was reversible. Consider the potential effects of dutasteride; tamsulosin when assessing infertility in these patients. People who may become pregnant should be counseled to avoid contact with leaking dutasteride; tamsulosin capsules. Dutasteride can be absorbed through the skin and can cause unintended fetal exposure, leading to potential harm to the male fetus should the person be pregnant.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Avoid use of dutasteride; tamsulosin during breast-feeding. Dutasteride; tamsulosin is not indicated for use in lactating individuals and has not been studied in breast-feeding. There is no information on the presence of dutasteride; tamsulosin in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Dutasteride; tamsulosin is contraindicated for use during pregnancy. In animal reproduction and developmental toxicity studies, dutasteride inhibited development of the external genitalia in the male fetus. Dutasteride is a 5-alpha-reductase inhibitor and prevents conversion of testosterone to dihydrotestosterone (DHT), a hormone necessary for the normal development of male genitalia. Advise pregnant individuals not to handle dutasteride; tamsulosin capsules due to the potential for dutasteride exposure through the skin and unintended fetal exposure. If a pregnant or potentially pregnant individual comes in contact with a leaking capsule, the contact area should be washed with soap and water immediately. Although dutasteride is secreted into human semen, the concentration of dutasteride in semen that is available for vaginal absorption is approximately 100 times less than concentrations that produce abnormalities of male genitalia in animal studies. Dutasteride is more than 96% protein bound in human semen, which may reduce the amount of dutasteride available for vaginal absorption.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Counsel patients about the reproductive risk associated with dutasteride; tamsulosin. In people who can cause pregnancy in others, dutasteride may decrease sperm count, sperm motility, and semen volume. Ejaculation disorders have been associated with tamsulosin, and studies revealed significantly reduced fertility in male animals, considered to be due to impairment of ejaculation, which was reversible. Consider the potential effects of dutasteride; tamsulosin when assessing infertility in these patients. People who may become pregnant should be counseled to avoid contact with leaking dutasteride; tamsulosin capsules. Dutasteride can be absorbed through the skin and can cause unintended fetal exposure, leading to potential harm to the male fetus should the person be pregnant.

Interactions
Abiraterone: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tamsulosin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with abiraterone is necessary. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 substrate and abiraterone is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor. The effects of coadministration with a moderate CYP2D6 on the pharmacokinetics of tamsulosin have not been evaluated; however, the manufacturer of tamsulosin recommends caution with use.
Acebutolol: (Minor) Tamsulosin did not potentiate the hypotensive effects of atenolol. However, since the symptoms of orthostasis are reported more frequently in tamsulosin-treated vs. placebo patients, there is a potential risk of enhanced hypotensive effects when co-administered with antihypertensive agents.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of diphenhydramine with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 substrate and diphenhydramine is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Use caution when administering tamsulosin with a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor such as chlorpheniramine. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor resulted in increases in tamsulosin exposure; interactions with moderate CYP2D6 inhibitors have not been evaluated. If concomitant use in necessary, monitor patient closely for increased side effects.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Use caution when administering tamsulosin with a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor such as chlorpheniramine. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor resulted in increases in tamsulosin exposure; interactions with moderate CYP2D6 inhibitors have not been evaluated. If concomitant use in necessary, monitor patient closely for increased side effects.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Use caution when administering tamsulosin with a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor such as chlorpheniramine. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor resulted in increases in tamsulosin exposure; interactions with moderate CYP2D6 inhibitors have not been evaluated. If concomitant use in necessary, monitor patient closely for increased side effects.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Use caution when administering tamsulosin with a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor such as chlorpheniramine. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor resulted in increases in tamsulosin exposure; interactions with moderate CYP2D6 inhibitors have not been evaluated. If concomitant use in necessary, monitor patient closely for increased side effects.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Use caution when administering tamsulosin with a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor such as chlorpheniramine. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor resulted in increases in tamsulosin exposure; interactions with moderate CYP2D6 inhibitors have not been evaluated. If concomitant use in necessary, monitor patient closely for increased side effects.
Acetaminophen; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of diphenhydramine with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 substrate and diphenhydramine is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Adagrasib: (Major) Concurrent use of tamsulosin and adagrasib is not recommended due to the potential for elevated tamsulosin concentrations. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A and moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant treatment with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the AUC of tamsulosin by 2.8-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for dutasteride-related adverse reactions if coadministration with adagrasib is necessary. Dutasteride is a CYP3A substrate and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Although the effect of strong CYP3A inhibitors on dutasteride has not been studied, dutasteride exposure may increase.
Alpha-blockers: (Major) Tamsulosin should not be administered in combination with other alpha-blockers. The pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interactions between tamsulosin and other alpha-blockers (used for high blood pressure or for benign prostatic hyperplasia) have not been determined. However, interactions or side effects (dizziness, hypotension, syncope, etc.) may be expected from the duplication of pharmacologic effects.
Ambrisentan: (Minor) Because symptoms of orthostasis (e.g., postural hypotension, dizziness, vertigo) are reported more frequently in tamsulosin-treated vs. placebo patients, there is a potential risk of enhanced hypotensive effects when co-administered with antihypertensive agents.
amLODIPine: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of tamsulosin with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. In addition, diltiazem, nicardipine, and verapamil may increase tamsulosin plasma concentrations via CYP3A4 inhibition. This interaction can be therapeutically advantageous, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of tamsulosin with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. In addition, diltiazem, nicardipine, and verapamil may increase tamsulosin plasma concentrations via CYP3A4 inhibition. This interaction can be therapeutically advantageous, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of tamsulosin with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. In addition, diltiazem, nicardipine, and verapamil may increase tamsulosin plasma concentrations via CYP3A4 inhibition. This interaction can be therapeutically advantageous, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of tamsulosin with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. In addition, diltiazem, nicardipine, and verapamil may increase tamsulosin plasma concentrations via CYP3A4 inhibition. This interaction can be therapeutically advantageous, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of tamsulosin with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. In addition, diltiazem, nicardipine, and verapamil may increase tamsulosin plasma concentrations via CYP3A4 inhibition. This interaction can be therapeutically advantageous, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of tamsulosin with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. In addition, diltiazem, nicardipine, and verapamil may increase tamsulosin plasma concentrations via CYP3A4 inhibition. This interaction can be therapeutically advantageous, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of tamsulosin with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. In addition, diltiazem, nicardipine, and verapamil may increase tamsulosin plasma concentrations via CYP3A4 inhibition. This interaction can be therapeutically advantageous, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
Amobarbital: (Moderate) Concurrent use of amobarbital with antihypertensive agents may lead to hypotension. Monitor for decreases in blood pressure during times of coadministration.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Plasma concentrations of tamsulosin may be increased with concomitant use of clarithromycin. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in significant increases in tamsulosin exposure. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension. Therefore, concomitant use with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, such as clarithromycin, should be avoided.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Moderate) Use caution if tamsulosin and aprepitant, fosaprepitant are used concurrently and monitor for an increase in tamsulosin-related adverse effects for several days after administration of a multi-day aprepitant regimen. Tamsulosin is a CYP3A4 substrate. Aprepitant, when administered as a 3-day oral regimen (125 mg/80 mg/80 mg), is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and inducer and may increase plasma concentrations of tamsulosin. For example, a 5-day oral aprepitant regimen increased the AUC of another CYP3A4 substrate, midazolam (single dose), by 2.3-fold on day 1 and by 3.3-fold on day 5. After a 3-day oral aprepitant regimen, the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1, 4, 8, and 15) increased by 25% on day 4, and then decreased by 19% and 4% on days 8 and 15, respectively. As a single 125 mg or 40 mg oral dose, the inhibitory effect of aprepitant on CYP3A4 is weak, with the AUC of midazolam increased by 1.5-fold and 1.2-fold, respectively. After administration, fosaprepitant is rapidly converted to aprepitant and shares many of the same drug interactions. However, as a single 150 mg intravenous dose, fosaprepitant only weakly inhibits CYP3A4 for a duration of 2 days; there is no evidence of CYP3A4 induction. Fosaprepitant 150 mg IV as a single dose increased the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1 and 4) by approximately 1.8-fold on day 1; there was no effect on day 4. Less than a 2-fold increase in the midazolam AUC is not considered clinically important.
Artemether; Lumefantrine: (Moderate) Use caution when administering tamsulosin with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor such as artemether; lumefantrine. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor resulted in increases in tamsulosin exposure. If concomitant use in necessary, monitor patient closely for increased side effects.
Atazanavir: (Major) Plasma concentrations of tamsulosin may be increased with concomitant use of anti-retroviral protease inhibitors. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in significant increases in tamsulosin exposure. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension. Therefore, concomitant use of tamsulosin with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, or an agent with both CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitor activity, should be avoided. (Moderate) Concurrent administration of dutasteride with protease inhibitors may result in elevated dutasteride plasma concentrations. Dutasteride is metabolized by the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; protease inhibitors are potent inhibitors of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are administered together.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Concurrent use of tamsulosin and cobicistat is not recommended due to the potential for elevated tamsulosin concentrations. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. Cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4 and a CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant treatment with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 2.2 and 2.8, respectively. (Major) Plasma concentrations of tamsulosin may be increased with concomitant use of anti-retroviral protease inhibitors. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in significant increases in tamsulosin exposure. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension. Therefore, concomitant use of tamsulosin with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, or an agent with both CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitor activity, should be avoided. (Moderate) Concurrent administration of dutasteride with protease inhibitors may result in elevated dutasteride plasma concentrations. Dutasteride is metabolized by the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; protease inhibitors are potent inhibitors of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are administered together. (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of dutasteride may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects, such as impotence or libido decrease, is recommended during coadministration. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, while dutasteride is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Atenolol: (Minor) Tamsulosin did not potentiate the hypotensive effects of atenolol. However, since the symptoms of orthostasis are reported more frequently in tamsulosin-treated vs. placebo patients, there is a potential risk of enhanced hypotensive effects when co-administered with antihypertensive agents.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Minor) Tamsulosin did not potentiate the hypotensive effects of atenolol. However, since the symptoms of orthostasis are reported more frequently in tamsulosin-treated vs. placebo patients, there is a potential risk of enhanced hypotensive effects when co-administered with antihypertensive agents.
Avacopan: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of avacopan with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Avanafil: (Moderate) Due to the potential for symptomatic hypotension, patients should be stable on tamsulosin therapy before initiating therapy with the lowest dose of avanafil. Conversely, patients already receiving an optimized dose of avanafil should be started on the lowest dose of tamsulosin; increases in the alpha-blocker dose should be done in a stepwise fashion. Other variables, such as intravascular volume depletion, concurrent antihypertensive therapy, or evidence of hemodynamic instability with alpha-blocker monotherapy, may affect the safety of concomitant use of avanafil and tamsulosin.
Berotralstat: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of berotralstat with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg. The systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 substrate and berotralstat is a moderate CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitor. The effects of concomitant administration of a moderate CYP3A4/CYP2D6 inhibitor on the pharmacokinetics of tamsulosin have not been evaluated, but tamsulosin exposure may increase based on the effects of strong CYP3A4 inhibition.
Beta-blockers: (Minor) Tamsulosin did not potentiate the hypotensive effects of atenolol. However, since the symptoms of orthostasis are reported more frequently in tamsulosin-treated vs. placebo patients, there is a potential risk of enhanced hypotensive effects when co-administered with antihypertensive agents.
Betaxolol: (Minor) Tamsulosin did not potentiate the hypotensive effects of atenolol. However, since the symptoms of orthostasis are reported more frequently in tamsulosin-treated vs. placebo patients, there is a potential risk of enhanced hypotensive effects when co-administered with antihypertensive agents.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of lenacapavir with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Bisoprolol: (Minor) Tamsulosin did not potentiate the hypotensive effects of atenolol. However, since the symptoms of orthostasis are reported more frequently in tamsulosin-treated vs. placebo patients, there is a potential risk of enhanced hypotensive effects when co-administered with antihypertensive agents.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Tamsulosin did not potentiate the hypotensive effects of atenolol. However, since the symptoms of orthostasis are reported more frequently in tamsulosin-treated vs. placebo patients, there is a potential risk of enhanced hypotensive effects when co-administered with antihypertensive agents.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Minor) Tamsulosin did not potentiate the hypotensive effects of atenolol. However, since the symptoms of orthostasis are reported more frequently in tamsulosin-treated vs. placebo patients, there is a potential risk of enhanced hypotensive effects when co-administered with antihypertensive agents.
buPROPion: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of bupropion with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 substrate and bupropion is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant treatment with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 1.3 and 1.6, respectively.
buPROPion; Naltrexone: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of bupropion with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 substrate and bupropion is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant treatment with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 1.3 and 1.6, respectively.
Calcium-channel blockers: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of tamsulosin with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. In addition, diltiazem, nicardipine, and verapamil may increase tamsulosin plasma concentrations via CYP3A4 inhibition. This interaction can be therapeutically advantageous, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
Capivasertib: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of capivasertib with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 substrate and capivasertib is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Carteolol: (Minor) Tamsulosin did not potentiate the hypotensive effects of atenolol. However, since the symptoms of orthostasis are reported more frequently in tamsulosin-treated vs. placebo patients, there is a potential risk of enhanced hypotensive effects when co-administered with antihypertensive agents.
Carvedilol: (Minor) Tamsulosin did not potentiate the hypotensive effects of atenolol. However, since the symptoms of orthostasis are reported more frequently in tamsulosin-treated vs. placebo patients, there is a potential risk of enhanced hypotensive effects when co-administered with antihypertensive agents.
Ceritinib: (Major) Concurrent use of tamsulosin and ceritinib is not recommended due to the potential for elevated tamsulosin concentrations. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 hepatic enzymes, and strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 like ceritinib are expected to significantly raise tamsulosin concentrations. Concomitant treatment with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 2.2 and 2.8, respectively. (Moderate) Monitor for dutasteride-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ceritinib is necessary. Dutasteride is a CYP3A4 substrate and ceritinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Although the effect of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors on dutasteride has not been studied, dutasteride exposure may increase.
Chloramphenicol: (Moderate) Use caution when administering tamsulosin with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor such as chloramphenicol. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in significant increases in tamsulosin exposure; interactions with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors have not been evaluated. If concomitant use in necessary, monitor patient closely for increased side effects.
Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Use caution when administering tamsulosin with a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor such as chlorpheniramine. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor resulted in increases in tamsulosin exposure; interactions with moderate CYP2D6 inhibitors have not been evaluated. If concomitant use in necessary, monitor patient closely for increased side effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Use caution when administering tamsulosin with a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor such as chlorpheniramine. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor resulted in increases in tamsulosin exposure; interactions with moderate CYP2D6 inhibitors have not been evaluated. If concomitant use in necessary, monitor patient closely for increased side effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Use caution when administering tamsulosin with a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor such as chlorpheniramine. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor resulted in increases in tamsulosin exposure; interactions with moderate CYP2D6 inhibitors have not been evaluated. If concomitant use in necessary, monitor patient closely for increased side effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Use caution when administering tamsulosin with a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor such as chlorpheniramine. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor resulted in increases in tamsulosin exposure; interactions with moderate CYP2D6 inhibitors have not been evaluated. If concomitant use in necessary, monitor patient closely for increased side effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Use caution when administering tamsulosin with a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor such as chlorpheniramine. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor resulted in increases in tamsulosin exposure; interactions with moderate CYP2D6 inhibitors have not been evaluated. If concomitant use in necessary, monitor patient closely for increased side effects.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Use caution when administering tamsulosin with a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor such as chlorpheniramine. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor resulted in increases in tamsulosin exposure; interactions with moderate CYP2D6 inhibitors have not been evaluated. If concomitant use in necessary, monitor patient closely for increased side effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Use caution when administering tamsulosin with a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor such as chlorpheniramine. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor resulted in increases in tamsulosin exposure; interactions with moderate CYP2D6 inhibitors have not been evaluated. If concomitant use in necessary, monitor patient closely for increased side effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Use caution when administering tamsulosin with a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor such as chlorpheniramine. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor resulted in increases in tamsulosin exposure; interactions with moderate CYP2D6 inhibitors have not been evaluated. If concomitant use in necessary, monitor patient closely for increased side effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Use caution when administering tamsulosin with a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor such as chlorpheniramine. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor resulted in increases in tamsulosin exposure; interactions with moderate CYP2D6 inhibitors have not been evaluated. If concomitant use in necessary, monitor patient closely for increased side effects.
chlorproMAZINE: (Moderate) Use caution when administering tamsulosin with a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor such as chlorpromazine. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor resulted in increases in tamsulosin exposure; interactions with moderate CYP2D6 inhibitors have not been evaluated. If concomitant use in necessary, monitor patient closely for increased side effects.
Cimetidine: (Moderate) Dutasteride is metabolized by CYP3A4 enzyme. The clearance of dutasteride may be reduced when co-administered with CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as cimetidine. (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of cimetidine with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Treatment with cimetidine 400 mg every 6 hours for 6 days in healthy volunteers (n = 10) resulted in a 26% decrease in the clearance of tamsulosin, which resulted in a 44% increase in tamsulosin AUC. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate and cimetidine is a weak CYP2D6 and CYP3A inhibitor.
Cinacalcet: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of cinacalcet with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 substrate and cinacalcet is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Plasma concentrations of tamsulosin may be increased with concomitant use of clarithromycin. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in significant increases in tamsulosin exposure. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension. Therefore, concomitant use with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, such as clarithromycin, should be avoided.
Clevidipine: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of tamsulosin with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. In addition, diltiazem, nicardipine, and verapamil may increase tamsulosin plasma concentrations via CYP3A4 inhibition. This interaction can be therapeutically advantageous, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
Cobicistat: (Major) Concurrent use of tamsulosin and cobicistat is not recommended due to the potential for elevated tamsulosin concentrations. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. Cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4 and a CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant treatment with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 2.2 and 2.8, respectively. (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of dutasteride may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects, such as impotence or libido decrease, is recommended during coadministration. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, while dutasteride is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Conivaptan: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of conivaptan with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP3A substrate and conivaptan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Crizotinib: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of crizotinib with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP3A4 substrate and crizotinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. The effects of concomitant administration of a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor on the pharmacokinetics of tamsulosin have not been evaluated, but tamsulosin exposure may increase based on the effects of strong CYP3A4 inhibition.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Use caution when administering tamsulosin with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor such as cyclosporine. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in significant increases in tamsulosin exposure; interactions with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors have not been evaluated. If concomitant use in necessary, monitor patient closely for increased side effects.
Dacomitinib: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of dacomitinib with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 substrate and dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant treatment with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 1.3 and 1.6, respectively.
Darifenacin: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of darifenacin with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 substrate and darifenacin is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor. The effects of concomitant administration of a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor on the pharmacokinetics of tamsulosin have not been evaluated, but tamsulosin exposure may increase based on the effects of strong CYP2D6 inhibition.
Darunavir: (Major) Plasma concentrations of tamsulosin may be increased with concomitant use of anti-retroviral protease inhibitors. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in significant increases in tamsulosin exposure. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension. Therefore, concomitant use of tamsulosin with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, or an agent with both CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitor activity, should be avoided. (Moderate) Concurrent administration of dutasteride with protease inhibitors may result in elevated dutasteride plasma concentrations. Dutasteride is metabolized by the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; protease inhibitors are potent inhibitors of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are administered together.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Concurrent use of tamsulosin and cobicistat is not recommended due to the potential for elevated tamsulosin concentrations. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. Cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4 and a CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant treatment with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 2.2 and 2.8, respectively. (Major) Plasma concentrations of tamsulosin may be increased with concomitant use of anti-retroviral protease inhibitors. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in significant increases in tamsulosin exposure. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension. Therefore, concomitant use of tamsulosin with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, or an agent with both CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitor activity, should be avoided. (Moderate) Concurrent administration of dutasteride with protease inhibitors may result in elevated dutasteride plasma concentrations. Dutasteride is metabolized by the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; protease inhibitors are potent inhibitors of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are administered together. (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of dutasteride may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects, such as impotence or libido decrease, is recommended during coadministration. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, while dutasteride is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Concurrent use of tamsulosin and cobicistat is not recommended due to the potential for elevated tamsulosin concentrations. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. Cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4 and a CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant treatment with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 2.2 and 2.8, respectively. (Major) Plasma concentrations of tamsulosin may be increased with concomitant use of anti-retroviral protease inhibitors. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in significant increases in tamsulosin exposure. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension. Therefore, concomitant use of tamsulosin with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, or an agent with both CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitor activity, should be avoided. (Moderate) Concurrent administration of dutasteride with protease inhibitors may result in elevated dutasteride plasma concentrations. Dutasteride is metabolized by the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; protease inhibitors are potent inhibitors of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are administered together. (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of dutasteride may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects, such as impotence or libido decrease, is recommended during coadministration. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, while dutasteride is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Dextromethorphan; buPROPion: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of bupropion with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 substrate and bupropion is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant treatment with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 1.3 and 1.6, respectively.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of diphenhydramine with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 substrate and diphenhydramine is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Moderate) Use caution when administering tamsulosin with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor such as quinidine. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor resulted in increases in tamsulosin exposure. If concomitant use in necessary, monitor patient closely for increased side effects.
dilTIAZem: (Moderate) Dutasteride is metabolized by CYP3A4 enzyme and the clearance of dutasteride may be reduced when co-administered with the CYP3A4 inhibitor diltiazem. (Moderate) The concomitant administration of tamsulosin with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. In addition, diltiazem, nicardipine, and verapamil may increase tamsulosin plasma concentrations via CYP3A4 inhibition. This interaction can be therapeutically advantageous, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of diphenhydramine with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 substrate and diphenhydramine is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of diphenhydramine with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 substrate and diphenhydramine is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of diphenhydramine with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 substrate and diphenhydramine is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of diphenhydramine with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 substrate and diphenhydramine is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Minor) Tamsulosin did not potentiate the hypotensive effects of atenolol. However, since the symptoms of orthostasis are reported more frequently in tamsulosin-treated vs. placebo patients, there is a potential risk of enhanced hypotensive effects when co-administered with antihypertensive agents.
Doxazosin: (Major) Tamsulosin should not be administered in combination with other alpha-blockers. The pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interactions between tamsulosin and other alpha-blockers (used for high blood pressure or for benign prostatic hyperplasia) have not been determined. However, interactions or side effects (dizziness, hypotension, syncope, etc.) may be expected from the duplication of pharmacologic effects.
Dronedarone: (Major) Plasma concentrations of tamsulosin may be increased with concomitant use of dronedarone. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in significant increases in tamsulosin exposure. Therefore, concomitant use with drugs that inhibit both CYP2D6 and CYP3A4, such as dronedarone, should be avoided.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of duloxetine with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 substrate and duloxetine is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Elbasvir; Grazoprevir: (Moderate) Administering tamsulosin with elbasvir; grazoprevir may result in elevated tamsulosin plasma concentrations. Tamsulosin is a substrate of CYP3A; grazoprevir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. If these drugs are used together, closely monitor for signs of adverse events.
Eliglustat: (Moderate) Coadministration of tamsulosin and eliglustat may result in increased concentrations of tamsulosin. Use tamsulosin with caution in patients receiving eliglustat, particularly if the tamsulosin dose is greater than 0.4 mg, and monitor closely for tamsulosin-related adverse effects including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 substrate; eliglustat is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Concurrent use of tamsulosin and cobicistat is not recommended due to the potential for elevated tamsulosin concentrations. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. Cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4 and a CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant treatment with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 2.2 and 2.8, respectively. (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of dutasteride may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects, such as impotence or libido decrease, is recommended during coadministration. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, while dutasteride is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Concurrent use of tamsulosin and cobicistat is not recommended due to the potential for elevated tamsulosin concentrations. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. Cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4 and a CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant treatment with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 2.2 and 2.8, respectively. (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of dutasteride may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects, such as impotence or libido decrease, is recommended during coadministration. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, while dutasteride is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Ensitrelvir: (Major) Concurrent use of tamsulosin and ensitrelvir is not recommended due to the potential for elevated tamsulosin concentrations. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A, and strong inhibitors of CYP3A, such as ensitrelvir, are expected to significantly raise tamsulosin concentrations. Concomitant treatment with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 2.2 and 2.8, respectively. (Moderate) Monitor for dutasteride-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary. Dutasteride is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Although the effect of strong CYP3A inhibitors on dutasteride has not been studied, dutasteride exposure may increase.
Erythromycin: (Moderate) Dutasteride is metabolized by CYP3A4 enzyme and CYP3A5 isoenzymes. The clearance of dutasteride may be reduced when co-administered with CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as erythromycin. (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of erythromycin with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP3A substrate and erythromycin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Escitalopram: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of escitalopram with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 substrate and escitalopram is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Esmolol: (Minor) Tamsulosin did not potentiate the hypotensive effects of atenolol. However, since the symptoms of orthostasis are reported more frequently in tamsulosin-treated vs. placebo patients, there is a potential risk of enhanced hypotensive effects when co-administered with antihypertensive agents.
Everolimus: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tamsulosin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with everolimus is necessary. Tamsulosin is a CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 substrate. Everolimus is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor and a CYP2D6 inhibitor. The effects of coadministration of both a CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitor with tamsulosin have not been evaluated; however, there is a potential for significantly increased plasma concentrations of tamsulosin.
Fedratinib: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of fedratinib with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 substrate and fedratinib is a moderate CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitor. The effects of concomitant administration of moderate CYP3A4 and moderate CYP2D6 inhibitors on the pharmacokinetics of tamsulosin have not been evaluated, but tamsulosin exposure may increase based on the effects of strong CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibition.
Felodipine: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of tamsulosin with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. In addition, diltiazem, nicardipine, and verapamil may increase tamsulosin plasma concentrations via CYP3A4 inhibition. This interaction can be therapeutically advantageous, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
Finasteride; Tadalafil: (Moderate) Due to the potential for symptomatic hypotension, patients should be stable on tamsulosin therapy before initiating therapy with the lowest recommended dose of tadalafil. Conversely, patients already receiving an optimized dose of tadalafil should be started on the lowest dose of tamsulosin; increases in the alpha-blocker dose should be done in a stepwise fashion. When tadalafil is used for benign prostatic hypertrophy (BPH), discontinue tamsulosin therapy at least 1 day prior to initiating tadalafil therapy. Other variables, such as intravascular volume depletion, concurrent antihypertensive therapy, or evidence of hemodynamic instability with alpha-blocker monotherapy, may affect the safety of concomitant use of tadalafil and tamsulosin.
Fluconazole: (Moderate) Dutasteride is metabolized by the CYP3A4/5 hepatic enzyme. The clearance of dutasteride may be reduced when co-administered with CYP3A4 inhibitors including fluconazole. (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of fluconazole with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP3A substrate and fluconazole is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of fluoxetine with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 substrate and fluoxetine is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant treatment with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 1.3 and 1.6, respectively.
fluvoxaMINE: (Moderate) Tamsulosin should be used with caution in combination with moderate inhibitors of CYP3A4 such as fluvoxamine. The cytochrome P450 enzymes CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 are responsible for the extensive metabolism of tamsulosin. Strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 are known to increase the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 2.2 and 2.8, respectively. No studies have been performed with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors. As with other alpha adrenergic blocking agents there is a potential risk of syncope with tamsulosin, particularly if serum concentrations are elevated. Monitor blood pressure and observe for symptoms of orthostasis.
Fosamprenavir: (Major) Plasma concentrations of tamsulosin may be increased with concomitant use of anti-retroviral protease inhibitors. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in significant increases in tamsulosin exposure. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension. Therefore, concomitant use of tamsulosin with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, or an agent with both CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitor activity, should be avoided. (Moderate) Concurrent administration of dutasteride with protease inhibitors may result in elevated dutasteride plasma concentrations. Dutasteride is metabolized by the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; protease inhibitors are potent inhibitors of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are administered together.
Grapefruit juice: (Moderate) Hepatic cytochrome P450 enzymes 2D6 and 3A4 are responsible for the extensive metabolism of tamsulosin. Although no clinical studies have been done, tamsulosin should be used with caution with inhibitors of CYP3A4 isoenzymes (e.g., grapefruit juice).
Haloperidol: (Moderate) Use caution when administering tamsulosin with a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor such as haloperidol. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor resulted in increases in tamsulosin exposure; interactions with moderate CYP2D6 inhibitors have not been evaluated. If concomitant use in necessary, monitor patient closely for increased side effects.
Idelalisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of idelalisib, a strong CYP3A inhibitor, with tamsulosin, a CYP3A substrate, as tamsulosin toxicities may be significantly increased. The AUC of a sensitive CYP3A substrate was increased 5.4-fold when coadministered with idelalisib. (Moderate) Monitor for common side effects of dutasteride, such as libido decrease, breast tenderness, or erectile dysfunction when chronic, potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 like idelalisib are used concomitantly. The effect of potent CYP3A4 inhibitors on the metabolism of dutasteride has not been studied. However, because dutasteride is metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5 isoenzymes, chronic coadministration with potent CYP3A4 enzyme inhibitors may result in elevated concentrations of dutasteride.
Iloprost: (Minor) Iloprost can have additive effects when administered with other antihypertensive agents, including alpha-blockers. These effects can be used to therapeutic advantage, but dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Imatinib: (Major) Plasma concentrations of tamsulosin may be increased with concomitant use of imatinib, STI-571. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in significant increases in tamsulosin exposure. Therefore, concomitant use with drugs that inhibit both CYP2D6 and CYP3A4, such as imatinib, STI-571, should be avoided. (Moderate) Monitor for common side effects of dutasteride, such as libido decrease, breast tenderness, or erectile dysfunction when chronic, potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 like imatinib are used concomitantly. The effect of potent CYP3A4 inhibitors on the metabolism of dutasteride has not been studied. However, because dutasteride is metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5 isoenzymes, chronic coadministration with potent CYP3A4 enzyme inhibitors may result in elevated concentrations of dutasteride.
Isavuconazonium: (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of tamsulosin may be elevated when administered concurrently with isavuconazonium. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects, such as hypotension, is recommended during coadministration. Tamsulosin is a substrate of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4 and drug transporter P-glycoprotein (P-gp); isavuconazole, the active moiety of isavuconazonium, is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and P-gp.
Isradipine: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of tamsulosin with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. In addition, diltiazem, nicardipine, and verapamil may increase tamsulosin plasma concentrations via CYP3A4 inhibition. This interaction can be therapeutically advantageous, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
Itraconazole: (Major) Use of tamsulosin is not recommended during and for 2 weeks after itraconazole therapy due to the potential for elevated tamsulosin concentrations. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 hepatic enzymes, and strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 are expected to significantly raise tamsulosin concentrations. Concomitant treatment with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in an increase in the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 2.2 and 2.8, respectively. (Moderate) Monitor for increased dutasteride adverse effects if coadministration of itraconazole is necessary. No clinical drug interaction trials have been performed to evaluate the impact of CYP3A enzyme inhibitors on dutasteride pharmacokinetics. However, based on in vitro data, blood concentrations of dutasteride may increase in the presence of inhibitors of CYP3A4 such as itraconazole.
Ketoconazole: (Major) Concurrent use of tamsulosin and ketoconazole is not recommended due to the potential for elevated tamsulosin concentrations. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations are expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4. Coadministration with ketoconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, increased the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin 2.2 and 2.8-fold, respectively. (Moderate) Monitor for dutasteride-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary due to a potential for increased dutasteride exposure. Dutasteride is extensively metabolized in humans by CYP3A4/3A5 isoenzymes. The effect of potent CYP3A4 inhibitors on dutasteride has not been studied. Because of the potential for drug-drug interactions, use caution when prescribing dutasteride to patients taking potent, chronic CYP3A4 enzyme inhibitors like ketoconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Labetalol: (Minor) Tamsulosin did not potentiate the hypotensive effects of atenolol. However, since the symptoms of orthostasis are reported more frequently in tamsulosin-treated vs. placebo patients, there is a potential risk of enhanced hypotensive effects when co-administered with antihypertensive agents.
Landiolol: (Minor) Tamsulosin did not potentiate the hypotensive effects of atenolol. However, since the symptoms of orthostasis are reported more frequently in tamsulosin-treated vs. placebo patients, there is a potential risk of enhanced hypotensive effects when co-administered with antihypertensive agents.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Plasma concentrations of tamsulosin may be increased with concomitant use of clarithromycin. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in significant increases in tamsulosin exposure. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension. Therefore, concomitant use with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, such as clarithromycin, should be avoided.
Lefamulin: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of oral lefamulin with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP3A4 substrate and oral lefamulin is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; an interaction is not expected with intravenous lefamulin. The effects of concomitant administration of a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor on the pharmacokinetics of tamsulosin have not been evaluated, but tamsulosin exposure may increase based on the effects of strong CYP3A4 inhibition.
Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of lenacapavir with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Letermovir: (Moderate) An increase in the plasma concentration of dutasteride may occur if given with letermovir. In patients who are also receiving treatment with cyclosporine, the magnitude of this interaction may be amplified. Dutasteride is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4. Letermovir is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; however, when given with cyclosporine, the combined effect on CYP3A4 substrates is similar to a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. The effects of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors on dutasteride have not been evaluated. (Moderate) An increase in the plasma concentration of tamsulosin may occur when given with letermovir. Avoid this combination in patients who are also receiving treatment with cyclosporine because the magnitude of this interaction may be amplified. Tamsulosin is partially metabolized by CYP3A4. Letermovir is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; however, when given with cyclosporine, the combined effect on CYP3A4 substrates is similar to a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In a drug interaction study, concomitant use of tamsulosin with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in increase in the maximum plasma concentration and exposure of tamsulosin by a factor of 2.2 and 2.8, respectively. The effects of concurrent use with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors have not been evaluated.
Levamlodipine: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of tamsulosin with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. In addition, diltiazem, nicardipine, and verapamil may increase tamsulosin plasma concentrations via CYP3A4 inhibition. This interaction can be therapeutically advantageous, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
Levobunolol: (Minor) Tamsulosin did not potentiate the hypotensive effects of atenolol. However, since the symptoms of orthostasis are reported more frequently in tamsulosin-treated vs. placebo patients, there is a potential risk of enhanced hypotensive effects when co-administered with antihypertensive agents.
Levoketoconazole: (Major) Concurrent use of tamsulosin and ketoconazole is not recommended due to the potential for elevated tamsulosin concentrations. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations are expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4. Coadministration with ketoconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, increased the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin 2.2 and 2.8-fold, respectively. (Moderate) Monitor for dutasteride-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary due to a potential for increased dutasteride exposure. Dutasteride is extensively metabolized in humans by CYP3A4/3A5 isoenzymes. The effect of potent CYP3A4 inhibitors on dutasteride has not been studied. Because of the potential for drug-drug interactions, use caution when prescribing dutasteride to patients taking potent, chronic CYP3A4 enzyme inhibitors like ketoconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of tamsulosin and lonafarnib due to the potential for elevated tamsulosin concentrations. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4, and strong inhibitors of CYP3A4, such as lonafarnib, are expected to significantly raise tamsulosin concentrations. Concomitant treatment with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 2.2 and 2.8, respectively. (Moderate) Monitor for dutasteride-related adverse reactions if coadministration with lonafarnib is necessary. Dutasteride is a CYP3A4 substrate and lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Although the effect of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors on dutasteride has not been studied, dutasteride exposure may increase.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Plasma concentrations of tamsulosin may be increased with concomitant use of anti-retroviral protease inhibitors. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in significant increases in tamsulosin exposure. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension. Therefore, concomitant use of tamsulosin with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, or an agent with both CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitor activity, should be avoided. (Moderate) Concurrent administration of dutasteride with protease inhibitors may result in elevated dutasteride plasma concentrations. Dutasteride is metabolized by the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; protease inhibitors are potent inhibitors of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are administered together.
Macitentan; Tadalafil: (Moderate) Due to the potential for symptomatic hypotension, patients should be stable on tamsulosin therapy before initiating therapy with the lowest recommended dose of tadalafil. Conversely, patients already receiving an optimized dose of tadalafil should be started on the lowest dose of tamsulosin; increases in the alpha-blocker dose should be done in a stepwise fashion. When tadalafil is used for benign prostatic hypertrophy (BPH), discontinue tamsulosin therapy at least 1 day prior to initiating tadalafil therapy. Other variables, such as intravascular volume depletion, concurrent antihypertensive therapy, or evidence of hemodynamic instability with alpha-blocker monotherapy, may affect the safety of concomitant use of tadalafil and tamsulosin.
Mavorixafor: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of mavorixafor with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 substrate and mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant treatment with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 1.3 and 1.6, respectively.
Metoprolol: (Minor) Tamsulosin did not potentiate the hypotensive effects of atenolol. However, since the symptoms of orthostasis are reported more frequently in tamsulosin-treated vs. placebo patients, there is a potential risk of enhanced hypotensive effects when co-administered with antihypertensive agents.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Tamsulosin did not potentiate the hypotensive effects of atenolol. However, since the symptoms of orthostasis are reported more frequently in tamsulosin-treated vs. placebo patients, there is a potential risk of enhanced hypotensive effects when co-administered with antihypertensive agents.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Concurrent use of tamsulosin and mifepristone is not recommended due to the potential for elevated tamsulosin concentrations. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A, and strong inhibitors of CYP3A, such as mifepristone, are expected to significantly raise tamsulosin concentrations. Concomitant treatment with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 2.2 and 2.8, respectively.
Mirabegron: (Moderate) The effect of mirabegron on tamsulosin pharmacokinetics was determined in drug interaction studies, there was a lack of pharmacokinetic interaction. However, it is recommended that mirabegron be administered with caution in patients taking other medications in the setting of risks for urinary obstruction because of the risk of urinary retention. This includes caution when used with tamsulosin. In addition, mirabegron is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor. Exposure of drugs metabolized by CYP2D6 isoenzymes such as tamsulosin may be increased when co-administered with mirabegron.
Mitotane: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and tamsulosin are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of tamsulosin and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and tamsulosin is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of tamsulosin.
Nadolol: (Minor) Tamsulosin did not potentiate the hypotensive effects of atenolol. However, since the symptoms of orthostasis are reported more frequently in tamsulosin-treated vs. placebo patients, there is a potential risk of enhanced hypotensive effects when co-administered with antihypertensive agents.
Nebivolol: (Minor) Tamsulosin did not potentiate the hypotensive effects of atenolol. However, since the symptoms of orthostasis are reported more frequently in tamsulosin-treated vs. placebo patients, there is a potential risk of enhanced hypotensive effects when co-administered with antihypertensive agents.
Nefazodone: (Major) Plasma concentrations of tamsulosin may be increased with concomitant use of nefazodone. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in significant increases in tamsulosin exposure. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension. Therefore, concomitant use with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, such as nefazodone, should be avoided. (Moderate) Dutasteride is metabolized by CYP3A4 enzyme. The clearance of dutasteride may be reduced when co-administered with CYP3A4 inhibitors including nefazodone.
Nelfinavir: (Major) Plasma concentrations of tamsulosin may be increased with concomitant use of anti-retroviral protease inhibitors. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in significant increases in tamsulosin exposure. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension. Therefore, concomitant use of tamsulosin with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, or an agent with both CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitor activity, should be avoided. (Moderate) Concurrent administration of dutasteride with protease inhibitors may result in elevated dutasteride plasma concentrations. Dutasteride is metabolized by the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; protease inhibitors are potent inhibitors of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are administered together.
NiCARdipine: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of tamsulosin with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. In addition, diltiazem, nicardipine, and verapamil may increase tamsulosin plasma concentrations via CYP3A4 inhibition. This interaction can be therapeutically advantageous, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
NIFEdipine: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of tamsulosin with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. In addition, diltiazem, nicardipine, and verapamil may increase tamsulosin plasma concentrations via CYP3A4 inhibition. This interaction can be therapeutically advantageous, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
niMODipine: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of tamsulosin with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. In addition, diltiazem, nicardipine, and verapamil may increase tamsulosin plasma concentrations via CYP3A4 inhibition. This interaction can be therapeutically advantageous, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
Niraparib; Abiraterone: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tamsulosin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with abiraterone is necessary. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 substrate and abiraterone is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor. The effects of coadministration with a moderate CYP2D6 on the pharmacokinetics of tamsulosin have not been evaluated; however, the manufacturer of tamsulosin recommends caution with use.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Consider withholding tamsulosin, if clinically appropriate, during receipt of ritonavir-boosted nirmatrelvir. If this is not feasible, consider using an alternative COVID-19 therapy or reducing the tamsulosin dose for patients receiving a dose of 0.8 mg daily. Coadministration may increase tamsulosin exposure resulting in increased hypotension or orthostasis. Tamsulosin is a CYP3A substrate and nirmatrelvir is a CYP3A inhibitor. (Major) Plasma concentrations of tamsulosin may be increased with concomitant use of anti-retroviral protease inhibitors. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in significant increases in tamsulosin exposure. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension. Therefore, concomitant use of tamsulosin with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, or an agent with both CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitor activity, should be avoided. (Moderate) Concurrent administration of dutasteride with protease inhibitors may result in elevated dutasteride plasma concentrations. Dutasteride is metabolized by the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; protease inhibitors are potent inhibitors of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are administered together.
Nirogacestat: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of nirogacestat with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP3A substrate and nirogacestat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Nisoldipine: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of tamsulosin with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. In addition, diltiazem, nicardipine, and verapamil may increase tamsulosin plasma concentrations via CYP3A4 inhibition. This interaction can be therapeutically advantageous, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of fluoxetine with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 substrate and fluoxetine is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant treatment with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 1.3 and 1.6, respectively.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of tamsulosin with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. In addition, diltiazem, nicardipine, and verapamil may increase tamsulosin plasma concentrations via CYP3A4 inhibition. This interaction can be therapeutically advantageous, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
Oritavancin: (Minor) Tamsulosin is metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6; oritavancin is a weak CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inducer. Plasma concentrations and efficacy of tamsulosin may be reduced if these drugs are administered concurrently.
PARoxetine: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of paroxetine with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 substrate and paroxetine is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant treatment with paroxetine increased the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 1.3 and 1.6, respectively.
PAZOPanib: (Moderate) Pazopanib is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration of pazopanib and tamsulosin, a CYP3A4 substrate, may cause an increase in systemic concentrations of tamsulosin. Use caution when administering these drugs concomitantly.
Peginterferon Alfa-2b: (Minor) Use caution when administering tamsulosin with a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor such as peginterferon alfa-2b. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor resulted in increases in tamsulosin exposure; interactions with moderate CYP2D6 inhibitors have not been evaluated. If concomitant use in necessary, monitor patient closely for increased side effects.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of tamsulosin with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. In addition, diltiazem, nicardipine, and verapamil may increase tamsulosin plasma concentrations via CYP3A4 inhibition. This interaction can be therapeutically advantageous, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
Perphenazine: (Moderate) Use caution when administering tamsulosin with a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor such as perphenazine. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor resulted in increases in tamsulosin exposure; interactions with moderate CYP2D6 inhibitors have not been evaluated. If concomitant use in necessary, monitor patient closely for increased side effects.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Use caution when administering tamsulosin with a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor such as perphenazine. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor resulted in increases in tamsulosin exposure; interactions with moderate CYP2D6 inhibitors have not been evaluated. If concomitant use in necessary, monitor patient closely for increased side effects.
Phenoxybenzamine: (Major) Tamsulosin should not be administered in combination with other alpha-blockers. The pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interactions between tamsulosin and other alpha-blockers (used for high blood pressure or for benign prostatic hyperplasia) have not been determined. However, interactions or side effects (dizziness, hypotension, syncope, etc.) may be expected from the duplication of pharmacologic effects.
Phentolamine: (Major) Tamsulosin should not be administered in combination with other alpha-blockers. The pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interactions between tamsulosin and other alpha-blockers (used for high blood pressure or for benign prostatic hyperplasia) have not been determined. However, interactions or side effects (dizziness, hypotension, syncope, etc.) may be expected from the duplication of pharmacologic effects.
Pindolol: (Minor) Tamsulosin did not potentiate the hypotensive effects of atenolol. However, since the symptoms of orthostasis are reported more frequently in tamsulosin-treated vs. placebo patients, there is a potential risk of enhanced hypotensive effects when co-administered with antihypertensive agents.
Posaconazole: (Major) Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 hepatic enzymes, and strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 are expected to significantly raise tamsulosin concentrations. Plasma concentrations of tamsulosin are increased with concomitant use of ketoconazole, a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. Concomitant treatment with ketoconazole resulted in an increase in the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 2.2 and 2.8, respectively. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension. Therefore, concomitant use with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, such as ketoconazole, itraconazole, posaconazole, or voriconazole should be avoided. (Moderate) Monitor for common side effects of dutasteride, such as libido decrease, breast tenderness, or erectile dysfunction when chronic, potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 like posaconazole are used concomitantly. The effect of potent CYP3A4 inhibitors on the metabolism of dutasteride has not been studied. However, because dutasteride is metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5 isoenzymes, chronic coadministration with potent CYP3A4 enzyme inhibitors may result in elevated concentrations of dutasteride.
Prazosin: (Major) Tamsulosin should not be administered in combination with other alpha-blockers. The pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interactions between tamsulosin and other alpha-blockers (used for high blood pressure or for benign prostatic hyperplasia) have not been determined. However, interactions or side effects (dizziness, hypotension, syncope, etc.) may be expected from the duplication of pharmacologic effects.
Propafenone: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of propafenone with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 substrate and propafenone is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Propranolol: (Minor) Tamsulosin did not potentiate the hypotensive effects of atenolol. However, since the symptoms of orthostasis are reported more frequently in tamsulosin-treated vs. placebo patients, there is a potential risk of enhanced hypotensive effects when co-administered with antihypertensive agents.
Protease inhibitors: (Major) Plasma concentrations of tamsulosin may be increased with concomitant use of anti-retroviral protease inhibitors. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in significant increases in tamsulosin exposure. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension. Therefore, concomitant use of tamsulosin with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, or an agent with both CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitor activity, should be avoided. (Moderate) Concurrent administration of dutasteride with protease inhibitors may result in elevated dutasteride plasma concentrations. Dutasteride is metabolized by the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; protease inhibitors are potent inhibitors of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are administered together.
quiNIDine: (Moderate) Use caution when administering tamsulosin with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor such as quinidine. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor resulted in increases in tamsulosin exposure. If concomitant use in necessary, monitor patient closely for increased side effects.
quiNINE: (Major) Plasma concentrations of tamsulosin may be increased with concomitant use of quinine. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in significant increases in tamsulosin exposure. Therefore, concomitant use with drugs that inhibit both CYP2D6 and CYP3A4, such as quinine, should be avoided.
Ranolazine: (Major) Plasma concentrations of tamsulosin may be increased with concomitant use of ranolazine. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in significant increases in tamsulosin exposure. Therefore, concomitant use with drugs that inhibit both CYP2D6 and CYP3A4, such as ranolazine, should be avoided.
Relacorilant: (Major) Concurrent use of tamsulosin and relacorilant is not recommended due to the potential for elevated tamsulosin concentrations. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A, and strong inhibitors of CYP3A, such as relacorilant, are expected to significantly raise tamsulosin concentrations. Concomitant treatment with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 2.2 and 2.8, respectively. (Moderate) Monitor for dutasteride-related adverse reactions if coadministration with relacorilant is necessary. Dutasteride is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Although the effect of strong CYP3A inhibitors on dutasteride has not been studied, dutasteride exposure may increase.
Ribociclib: (Major) Concurrent use of tamsulosin and ribociclib is not recommended due to the potential for elevated tamsulosin concentrations. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 hepatic enzymes, and strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 are expected to significantly raise tamsulosin concentrations. Concomitant treatment with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 2.2 and 2.8, respectively. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dutasteride-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ribociclib is necessary. Dutasteride is a CYP3A4 substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Concurrent use of tamsulosin and ribociclib is not recommended due to the potential for elevated tamsulosin concentrations. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 hepatic enzymes, and strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 are expected to significantly raise tamsulosin concentrations. Concomitant treatment with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 2.2 and 2.8, respectively. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dutasteride-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ribociclib is necessary. Dutasteride is a CYP3A4 substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Rilzabrutinib: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of rilzabrutinib with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Ritlecitinib: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of ritlecitinib with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Ritonavir: (Major) Plasma concentrations of tamsulosin may be increased with concomitant use of anti-retroviral protease inhibitors. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in significant increases in tamsulosin exposure. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension. Therefore, concomitant use of tamsulosin with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, or an agent with both CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitor activity, should be avoided. (Moderate) Concurrent administration of dutasteride with protease inhibitors may result in elevated dutasteride plasma concentrations. Dutasteride is metabolized by the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; protease inhibitors are potent inhibitors of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are administered together.
Rolapitant: (Major) Use caution if tamsulosin and rolapitant are used concurrently, and monitor for tamsulosin-related adverse effects. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 substrate and rolapitant is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor; the inhibitory effect of rolapitant lasts for at least 7 days, and may last longer after single dose administration. The Cmax and AUC of another CYP2D6 substrate, dextromethorphan, were increased by 120% and 160%, respectively, on day 1 with rolapitant, and by 180% and 230%, respectively, on day 8 after rolapitant administration.
Saquinavir: (Major) Plasma concentrations of tamsulosin may be increased with concomitant use of anti-retroviral protease inhibitors. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in significant increases in tamsulosin exposure. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension. Therefore, concomitant use of tamsulosin with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, or an agent with both CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitor activity, should be avoided. (Moderate) Concurrent administration of dutasteride with protease inhibitors may result in elevated dutasteride plasma concentrations. Dutasteride is metabolized by the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; protease inhibitors are potent inhibitors of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are administered together.
Saw Palmetto, Serenoa repens: (Moderate) Saw palmetto may inhibit 5 alpha-reductase, preventing the conversion of testosterone to dihydrotestosterone. This action is similar to the action of 5-alpha reductase inhibitors, such as dutasteride and finasteride. Co-use is likely to be common by patients, but the effects of co-use are not known. In theory, the effects could be additive, but it is not known if the added effects would be beneficial or harmful. Clinicians should be alert for any unusual effects if patients ingest saw palmetto supplements while taking 5-alpha reductase inhibitors.
Sildenafil: (Moderate) Due to the potential for symptomatic hypotension, patients should be stable on tamsulosin therapy before initiating therapy with the lowest dose of sildenafil. Conversely, patients already receiving an optimized dose of sildenafil should be started on the lowest dose of tamsulosin; increases in the alpha-blocker dose should be done in a stepwise fashion. Other variables, such as intravascular volume depletion, concurrent antihypertensive therapy, or evidence of hemodynamic instability with alpha-blocker monotherapy, may affect the safety of concomitant use of sildenafil and tamsulosin.
Silodosin: (Major) The pharmacodynamic effects of coadministration of silodosin and other alpha-blockers has not been studied. Additive effects on blood pressure or an increased incidence of adverse reactions common to alpha-blocker treatment is possible. Therefore, combined use of silodosin and other alpha-blockers is not recommended.
Sotalol: (Minor) Tamsulosin did not potentiate the hypotensive effects of atenolol. However, since the symptoms of orthostasis are reported more frequently in tamsulosin-treated vs. placebo patients, there is a potential risk of enhanced hypotensive effects when co-administered with antihypertensive agents.
Soy Isoflavones: (Minor) Theoretically, because the soy isoflavones appear to inhibit type II 5-alpha-reductase, the soy isoflavones may have additive effects with other 5-alpha reductase inhibitors.
Tadalafil: (Moderate) Due to the potential for symptomatic hypotension, patients should be stable on tamsulosin therapy before initiating therapy with the lowest recommended dose of tadalafil. Conversely, patients already receiving an optimized dose of tadalafil should be started on the lowest dose of tamsulosin; increases in the alpha-blocker dose should be done in a stepwise fashion. When tadalafil is used for benign prostatic hypertrophy (BPH), discontinue tamsulosin therapy at least 1 day prior to initiating tadalafil therapy. Other variables, such as intravascular volume depletion, concurrent antihypertensive therapy, or evidence of hemodynamic instability with alpha-blocker monotherapy, may affect the safety of concomitant use of tadalafil and tamsulosin.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of tamsulosin with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. In addition, diltiazem, nicardipine, and verapamil may increase tamsulosin plasma concentrations via CYP3A4 inhibition. This interaction can be therapeutically advantageous, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of tamsulosin with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. In addition, diltiazem, nicardipine, and verapamil may increase tamsulosin plasma concentrations via CYP3A4 inhibition. This interaction can be therapeutically advantageous, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
Terazosin: (Major) Tamsulosin should not be administered in combination with other alpha-blockers. The pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interactions between tamsulosin and other alpha-blockers (used for high blood pressure or for benign prostatic hyperplasia) have not been determined. However, interactions or side effects (dizziness, hypotension, syncope, etc.) may be expected from the duplication of pharmacologic effects.
Terbinafine: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of terbinafine with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 substrate and terbinafine is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant treatment with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 1.3 and 1.6, respectively.
Thioridazine: (Moderate) Use caution when administering tamsulosin with a CYP2D6 inhibitor such as thioridazine. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor resulted in increases in tamsulosin exposure; interactions with moderate CYP2D6 inhibitors have not been evaluated. If concomitant use in necessary, monitor patient closely for increased side effects.
Timolol: (Minor) Tamsulosin did not potentiate the hypotensive effects of atenolol. However, since the symptoms of orthostasis are reported more frequently in tamsulosin-treated vs. placebo patients, there is a potential risk of enhanced hypotensive effects when co-administered with antihypertensive agents.
Tipranavir: (Major) Plasma concentrations of tamsulosin may be increased with concomitant use of anti-retroviral protease inhibitors. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in significant increases in tamsulosin exposure. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension. Therefore, concomitant use of tamsulosin with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, or an agent with both CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitor activity, should be avoided. (Moderate) Concurrent administration of dutasteride with protease inhibitors may result in elevated dutasteride plasma concentrations. Dutasteride is metabolized by the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; protease inhibitors are potent inhibitors of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are administered together.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of tamsulosin with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. In addition, diltiazem, nicardipine, and verapamil may increase tamsulosin plasma concentrations via CYP3A4 inhibition. This interaction can be therapeutically advantageous, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
Tucatinib: (Major) Concurrent use of tamsulosin and tucatinib is not recommended due to the potential for elevated tamsulosin concentrations. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4, and strong inhibitors of CYP3A4, such as tucatinib, are expected to significantly raise tamsulosin concentrations. Concomitant treatment with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 2.2 and 2.8, respectively. (Moderate) Monitor for dutasteride-related adverse reactions if coadministration with tucatinib is necessary. Dutasteride is a CYP3A4 substrate and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Although the effect of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors on dutasteride has not been studied, dutasteride exposure may increase.
Vardenafil: (Moderate) Due to the potential for symptomatic hypotension, patients should be stable on tamsulosin therapy before initiating therapy with the lowest dose of vardenafil. Conversely, patients already receiving an optimized dose of vardenafil should be started on the lowest dose of tamsulosin; increases in the alpha-blocker dose should be done in a stepwise fashion. Other variables, such as intravascular volume depletion, concurrent antihypertensive therapy, or evidence of hemodynamic instability with alpha-blocker monotherapy, may affect the safety of concomitant use of vardenafil and tamsulosin.
Vemurafenib: (Moderate) Vemurafenib is an inducer of CYP3A4 and decreased plasma concentrations of drugs metabolized by this enzyme, such as tamsulosin, could be expected with concurrent use. Use caution, and monitor therapeutic effects of tamsulosin when coadministered with vemurafenib.
Verapamil: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of tamsulosin with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. In addition, diltiazem, nicardipine, and verapamil may increase tamsulosin plasma concentrations via CYP3A4 inhibition. This interaction can be therapeutically advantageous, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Plasma concentrations of tamsulosin may be increased with concomitant use of clarithromycin. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in significant increases in tamsulosin exposure. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension. Therefore, concomitant use with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, such as clarithromycin, should be avoided.
Voriconazole: (Major) Concurrent use of tamsulosin and voriconazole is not recommended due to the potential for elevated tamsulosin concentrations. Such increases in tamsulosin concentrations may be expected to produce clinically significant and potentially serious side effects, such as hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 hepatic enzymes, and strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 are expected to significantly raise tamsulosin concentrations. Concomitant treatment with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 2.2 and 2.8, respectively. (Moderate) Monitor for dutasteride-related adverse effects (e.g., impotence, decreased libido, breast enlargement) if coadministered with voriconazole. Dutasteride is a CYP3A4 substrate, and voriconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Although the effect of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors on dutasteride has not been defined, dutasteride exposure may increase.
Voxelotor: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of voxelotor with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. The effects of concomitant administration of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor on the pharmacokinetics of tamsulosin have not been evaluated, but tamsulosin exposure may increase based on the effects of strong CYP3A inhibition.
Zafirlukast: (Moderate) Use caution when administering tamsulosin with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor such as zafirlukast. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in significant increases in tamsulosin exposure; interactions with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors have not been evaluated. If concomitant use in necessary, monitor patient closely for increased side effects.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    NOTE: This monograph discusses the use of dutasteride; tamsulosin combination capsules for the treatment of symptomatic benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH). Clinicians may wish to consult the individual drug monographs for more information.
    Headline
    decreased ejaculate volume, ejaculation dysfunction, impotence (erectile dysfunction), libido decrease, orgasm dysfunction, testicular pain, testicular swelling
    General Information
    Ejaculation disorders were among the most common adverse events reported among recipients of dutasteride; tamsulosin during clinical trials. Ejaculation dysfunction was reported in 11% of patients receiving combination therapy compared to those receiving dutasteride (2%) or tamsulosin (4%) monotherapy. The reported ejaculation disorders include impotence (erectile dysfunction) (5.4%; including disturbed sexual arousal), libido decrease (4.5%; includes libido disorder, loss of libido, sexual dysfunction), anorgasmia, retrograde ejaculation, decreased ejaculate volume, decreased orgasmic sensation, abnormal orgasm or orgasm dysfunction, delayed ejaculation, ejaculation failure, and premature ejaculation. It should be noted that these adverse events are associated with dutasteride (including monotherapy and combination with tamsulosin) and they may persist after treatment discontinuation. Additionally, there have been post-marketing reports of testicular pain and testicular swelling with dutasteride.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      testicular swelling
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      testicular pain
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      orgasm dysfunction
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      decreased ejaculate volume
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      libido decrease
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      impotence (erectile dysfunction)
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      ejaculation dysfunction
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    breast enlargement, gynecomastia
    General Information
    Breast disorders were among the most common adverse events reported among recipients of dutasteride; tamsulosin during the CombAT trial, where over 4,800 men with BPH were randomly assigned to receive monotherapy or combination therapy with dutasteride and tamsulosin for 4 years. The breast disorders were reported in 1.1% of the combination therapy recipients and included breast enlargement, gynecomastia, breast swelling, breast pain, breast tenderness, nipple pain, and nipple swelling. Additionally, there have been post-marketing reports of male breast cancer with dutasteride, though the relationship between long-term use of dutasteride and male breast neoplasia is unknown.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      breast enlargement
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      gynecomastia
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    atrial fibrillation, chest pain (unspecified), dizziness, dyspnea, hypotension, orthostatic hypotension, palpitations, syncope, vertigo
    General Information
    Adverse cardiovascular events may be seen with administration of dutasteride; tamsulosin, as they have been associated with tamsulosin monotherapy. Orthostatic hypotension may occur. In clinical trials with tamsulosin monotherapy, a positive orthostatic test result was observed in 16% (81/502) of patients receiving 0.4 mg tamsulosin vs. 11% (54/493) of patients receiving placebo, therefore there is a potential risk of syncope. Other signs and symptoms of orthostatic hypotension include postural hypotension, dizziness (reported in up to 1.1% of patients with dutasteride; tamsulosin combination therapy), and vertigo. Chest pain (unspecified) was reported in at least 2% of patients receiving 0.4 mg tamsulosin in two 13-week monotherapy treatment trials. There have been post-marketing reports of palpitations, dyspnea, atrial fibrillation, arrhythmia, tachycardia, and hypotension with tamsulosin, as well.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      orthostatic hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      syncope
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vertigo
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      palpitations
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      atrial fibrillation
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      chest pain (unspecified)
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    teratogenesis
    General Information
    Dutasteride; tamsulosin is contraindicated for use in women who are pregnant or may become pregnant because of the risk of teratogenesis. By inhibiting the conversion of testosterone to DHT, dutasteride and other 5-alpha-reductase inhibitors have the ability to cause teratogenesis, specifically abnormalities in the external genitalia of the male fetus (e.g., hypospadias).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      teratogenesis
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    blurred vision, floppy iris syndrome, visual impairment
    General Information
    Intraoperative Floppy Iris Syndrome (IFIS) has been observed during cataract surgery in some patients on or previously treated with alpha adrenergic antagonists, including tamsulosin, and is possible when patients take dutasteride; tamsulosin. Most reports were in patients taking the alpha adrenergic antagonist when IFIS occurred, but in some cases, the alpha adrenergic antagonist had been stopped prior to surgery. In most of these cases, therapy had been stopped recently prior to surgery (2 to 14 days), but in a few cases, it was reported after the patients had been off therapy for a longer period (5 weeks to 9 months). IFIS is a variant of small pupil syndrome and is characterized by the combination of a flaccid iris that billows in response to intraoperative irrigation currents, progressive intraoperative miosis despite preoperative dilation with standard mydriatic drugs, and potential prolapse of the iris toward the phacoemulsification incisions. The patient’s ophthalmologist should be prepared for possible modifications to their surgical technique, such as the utilization of iris hooks, iris dilator rings, or viscoelastic substances. IFIS may increase the risk of eye complications during and after the operation. The benefit of stopping alpha adrenergic antagonist therapy prior to cataract surgery has not been established. The initiation of therapy with tamsulosin in patients for whom cataract surgery is scheduled is not recommended. IFIS as well as blurred vision and visual impairment have been reported with tamsulosin use post marketing.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      floppy iris syndrome
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      blurred vision
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      visual impairment
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    heart failure
    General Information
    A causal relationship between dutasteride, alone or as part of combination therapy as dutasteride; tamsulosin, and heart failure has not been established. In the Combination With Alpha-Blocker Therapy (CombAT) trial, after 4 years of treatment, the incidence of the composite term heart failure in the coadministration group (12/1,610; 0.7%) was higher than in either monotherapy group: dutasteride, 2/1,623 (0.1%) and tamsulosin, 9/1,611 (0.6%). In addition, composite heart failure was examined in a separate 4-year placebo-controlled trial evaluating dutasteride in men at risk for development of prostate cancer. The incidence of heart failure in subjects taking dutasteride was 0.6% (26/4,105) compared to 0.4% (15/4,126) in subjects on placebo. It should be noted that a majority of subjects with heart failure in both studies had co-morbidities associated with an increased risk of heart failure. Therefore, the clinical significance is unknown. No imbalance was observed in the incidence of overall cardiovascular adverse events in either study.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      heart failure
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    angioedema, edema, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, pruritus, rash (unspecified), Stevens-Johnson syndrome, urticaria
    General Information
    Hypersensitivity and allergic-type reactions have been reported post-marketing with the individual components of dutasteride; tamsulosin and include skin rash (unspecified), pruritus, angioedema of tongue, lips and face, localized edema, urticaria, and respiratory symptoms (unspecified). There have also been post-marketing reports of skin desquamation, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, with tamsulosin. Erythema multiforme and exfoliative dermatitis have also been reported post-marketing.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      Stevens-Johnson syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      erythema multiforme
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      exfoliative dermatitis
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    constipation, diarrhea, vomiting, xerostomia
    General Information
    Gastrointestinal adverse events were not reported with dutasteride; tamsulosin combination therapy, but have been reported with tamsulosin monotherapy. In two 13-week treatment trials with tamsulosin, diarrhea was among the adverse reactions occurring in at least 2% of the patients, and there have been post-marketing reports of constipation, vomiting, and xerostomia.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    asthenia, back pain, cough, depression, drowsiness, epistaxis, infection, insomnia, pharyngitis, rhinitis, sinusitis
    General Information
    Certain adverse reactions were reported with either tamsulosin or dutasteride monotherapy. While not reported in clinical trials with dutasteride; tamsulosin, they are possible. In two 13-week, placebo-controlled trials, 1487 men received tamsulosin monotherapy and reported the following adverse reactions at a rate of >= 2%: asthenia, back pain, cough, drowsiness, infection, insomnia, pharyngitis, rhinitis, and sinusitis. Depression was reported with dutasteride post-marketing; epistaxis was reported with tamsulosin.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      back pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      pharyngitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      rhinitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      sinusitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      depression
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      epistaxis
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    infertility, oligospermia, spermatogenesis inhibition
    General Information
    Dutasteride may cause spermatogenesis inhibition or oligospermia, decreased sperm motility, or decreased semen volume. The clinical significance of dutasteride's effect on semen characteristics for an individual male patient's fertility is not known; consider the potential effects on semen when assessing a male with infertility. The effects of dutasteride 0.5 mg/day on semen characteristics were evaluated in normal male volunteers aged 18 to 52 (n = 27 dutasteride, n = 23 placebo) throughout 52 weeks of treatment and 24 weeks of post-treatment follow-up. At 52 weeks, the mean percent reductions from baseline in total sperm count, semen volume, and sperm motility were 23%, 26%, and 18%, respectively, in the dutasteride group when adjusted for changes from baseline in the placebo group. Sperm concentration and sperm morphology were unaffected. After 24 weeks of follow-up, the mean percent change in total sperm count in the dutasteride group remained 23% lower than baseline. While mean values for all semen parameters at all time-points remained within the normal ranges and did not meet predefined criteria for a clinically significant change (30%), 2 subjects in the dutasteride group had decreases in sperm count of greater than 90% from baseline at 52 weeks, with partial recovery at the 24-week follow-up.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      oligospermia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      spermatogenesis inhibition
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      infertility
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    priapism
    General Information
    Rarely (probably less than 1 in 50,000), tamsulosin, like other alpha adrenergic antagonists, has been associated with priapism (persistent painful penile erection unrelated to sexual activity); reports of priapism have been received postmarketing. Priapism, if not treated promptly, can result in irreversible damage to the erectile tissue and permanent erectile dysfunction. Patients who have an erection that does not go away should seek emergency medical attention. 50899
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      priapism
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To

Description
  Text
  NOTE: This monograph discusses the use of dutasteride; tamsulosin combination capsules for the treatment of symptomatic benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH). Clinicians may wish to consult the individual drug monographs for more information.
 
Dutasteride and tamsulosin are two agents used together for the treatment of symptomatic benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) in men with an enlarged prostate. Dutasteride is a selective inhibitor of type I and II 5-alpha-reductase, an intracellular enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of testosterone to 5-alpha-dihydrotestosterone (DHT); dutasteride reduces circulating DHT, which leads to a reduction in prostate hypertrophy and improvement in urine flow. Tamsulosin is a selective antagonist at alpha-1-receptors. Blockade of these receptors by tamsulosin can cause smooth muscles in the bladder neck and prostate to relax, thereby improving urine flow rate and reducing symptoms of BPH. The combination of dutasteride and tamsulosin was studied in the Combination With Alpha-Blocker Therapy (CombAT) trial in which treatment with dutasteride plus tamsulosin (n = 1,610) was compared to dutasteride alone (n = 1,623) or tamsulosin alone (n = 1,611). The objectives of the study were to investigate whether combination therapy is more effective than either monotherapy in reducing the relative risk for acute urinary retention (AUR), BPH-related surgery, and BPH clinical progression over 4 years. The time to first AUR or BPH-related surgery was significantly lower with combination therapy versus tamsulosin (combination decreased relative risk by 65.8%, p< 0.001); however, there was no significant difference between combination therapy and dutasteride (combination decreased relative risk by 19.6%, p= 0.18). Also, the time to first BPH clinical progression was significantly different in favor of combination therapy versus tamsulosin and dutasteride (p< 0.001 for both comparisons). These results provide support for the long-term use of dutasteride and tamsulosin combination therapy in men with moderate to severe lower urinary tract symptoms due to BPH and prostatic enlargement who at increased risk of progression. In June 2008, dutasteride was approved by the FDA for use in combination with tamsulosin for the treatment of symptomatic BPH in men with an enlarged prostate; the FDA approved the single-capsule combination product Jalyn in June, 2010.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Dutasteride; tamsulosin is a combination of 2 drugs with different mechanisms of action to improve symptoms in patients with BPH: dutasteride, a 5-alpha-reductase inhibitor (5 ARI), and tamsulosin, an antagonist of alpha-1a-adrenoreceptors.
Dutasteride: Dutasteride inhibits the conversion of testosterone to 5-alpha-dihydrotestosterone (DHT), the primary androgen that stimulates the development of prostate tissue. The intracellular enzyme 5-alpha-reductase is responsible for this conversion and exists in two isoforms, type I and II. The type II isoenzyme is primarily active in reproductive tissues (i.e., prostate, seminal vesicles, epididymides) and is responsible for two-thirds of circulating DHT. The type I isoenzyme is mostly active in the skin and liver. Dutasteride inhibits both the type I and type II isoforms. In the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia, dutasteride reduces circulating DHT, which leads to a reduction in prostate hypertrophy and improvement in urine flow. Dutasteride does not bind to androgen receptors in humans. In addition to reducing DHT, dutasteride increases total testosterone and thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) and decreases total serum prostate specific antigen (PSA). Dutasteride does not appear to alter circulating concentrations of sex hormone binding globulin, estradiol, luteinizing hormone, follicle-stimulating hormone, thyroxine (free T4), and dehydroepiandrosterone in healthy volunteers. Dutasteride does not affect the hypothalamic-pituitary-testicular-axis.
Tamsulosin: Tamsulosin is a selective antagonist at alpha-1-receptors. Alpha-1-receptors are involved in contraction of smooth muscle and are abundant in the prostate, prostatic capsule, prostatic urethra, and bladder neck. Three subtypes of alpha-1-receptors have been identified: Alpha-1a, alpha-1b, and alpha-1d. Alpha-1a receptors mediate human prostatic smooth muscle contraction whereas alpha-1b and alpha-1d-receptors are involved in vascular smooth muscle contraction. Both alpha-1a and alpha-1b-receptors exist in the prostate, however, approximately 70% of the alpha-receptors in the human prostate are of the alpha-1a subtype. Tamsulosin has 7—38-fold greater affinity for alpha-1a-receptors than for alpha-1b-receptors. Blockade of these receptors by tamsulosin can cause smooth muscles in the bladder neck and prostate to relax, thereby improving urine flow rate and reducing symptoms of BPH.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Dutasteride: After oral administration, dutasteride is absorbed rapidly with a short distribution phase. It's bioavailability is estimated to be about 60% (range 40% to 94%). Peak serum concentrations occur at a median of 3 hours.
Tamsulosin: Following oral administration, tamsulosin is almost completely (> 90%) absorbed under fasting conditions. When administered with food, tamsulosin Cmax decreases by a mean of 30%. Taking tamsulosin on an empty stomach could potentially increase the risk of some side effects (i.e., orthostasis); therefore tamsulosin should be taken with food. The time to maximum concentration is roughly 6 hours under fed conditions.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    While specific pharmacokinetic studies have not been performed in those with hepatic dysfunction for dutasteride; tamsulosin, the following data is for the individual components:
Dutasteride: The effects of hepatic impairment on dutasteride pharmacokinetics have not been studied. However, dutasteride is extensively metabolized by the liver and systemic exposure could be higher in patients with hepatic impairment. Since the half-life of dutasteride is about 5 weeks at steady state, caution is advised when administering the drug to patients with hepatic impairment.
Tamsulosin: Moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh's classification: Grades A or B) had no significant effect on the unbound (active) concentration of tamsulosin; only a modest change (32%) in intrinsic clearance of unbound tamsulosin was seen. Tamsulosin pharmacokinetics have not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    While specific pharmacokinetic studies have not been performed in those with hepatic dysfunction for dutasteride; tamsulosin, the following data is for the individual components:
Dutasteride: The effects of renal impairment on dutasteride pharmacokinetics have not been studied. Less than 0.1% of a steady-state 0.5 mg dose of dutasteride is recovered in human urine, therefore, no dosage adjustment is anticipated for patients with renal impairment.
Tamsulosin: Mild to severe renal impairment (CrCl 10—70 mL/min) had no significant effect on the unbound (active) concentration of tamsulosin. Tamsulosin pharmacokinetics have not been studied in patients with end-stage renal disease (CrCl < 10 mL/min). Tamsulosin is highly protein bound and is not likely to be significantly removed during hemodialysis.
    Name
    Pediatrics
    Description
    Dutasteride; tamsulosin is contraindicated for use in pediatric patients. Safety and efficacy in pediatric patients have not been established.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    No dosage adjustment is necessary in the elderly.
Dutasteride: After a single 5 mg dose in 36 healthy male subjects aged 24—87 years, the half-life of dutasteride increased with age (approximately 170 hours in men aged 20—49 years, approximately 260 hours in men aged 50—69 years, and approximately 300 hours in men >70 years).
Tamsulosin: A cross-study comparison indicates that the AUC and half-life for tamsulosin may be slightly prolonged in older males relative to young, healthy male volunteers. Intrinsic clearance is diminished with age, resulting in a 40% overall higher AUC in subjects aged 55—75 years compared to subjects aged 20—32 years.
  Text
  The combination product of dutasteride; tamsulosin (Jalyn) is administered orally. The pharmacokinetics of dutasteride and tamsulosin from Jalyn are comparable to the pharmacokinetics of dutasteride and tamsulosin when administered separately.
 
Dutasteride: Once in the systemic circulation, approximately 99% of dutasteride is highly bound to albumin and alpha1-acid glycoprotein. Dutasteride is distributed widely throughout the body. Dutasteride is metabolized in the liver via CYP3A4 and CYP3A5 enzymes. Two minor mono-hydroxylated metabolites and 3 major metabolites have been identified. Of these metabolites, the 6-beta-hydroxydutasteride is the only one to have activity comparable to that of dutasteride. Dutasteride and its metabolites are primarily excreted in feces (5% unchanged drug and 40% as metabolites). Only trace amounts of unchanged drug are found in urine ( 0.1 ng/mL) for up to 4 to 6 months after stopping therapy. Of note, the reduction of serum DHT is dose dependent and is observed within 1 to 2 weeks.
Tamsulosin: In the systemic circulation, tamsulosin is extensively bound to plasma proteins (94% to 99%), primarily to alpha1-acid glycoprotein (AAG). Tamsulosin is metabolized by the hepatic cytochrome P450 enzyme system, however, the specific enzymes have not been identified. The metabolites undergo extensive conjugation to glucuronide or sulfate prior to excretion in the urine. Less than 10% of the dose is excreted unchanged in the urine. The elimination half-life of tamsulosin in plasma ranges from 5 to 7 hours.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
 
Hazardous Drugs Classification
NIOSH 2024 List: Table 2
Observe and exercise appropriate precautions for handling, preparation, administration, and disposal of hazardous drugs.
Use gloves to handle; double chemotherapy gloves and a protective gown are needed if manipulation is necessary. Cutting, crushing, or otherwise manipulating tablets/capsules will increase exposure.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Administer approximately 30 minutes after the same meal each day.
Administer the capsules whole; do not open or chew since contact with the capsule contents may cause irritation of the oropharyngeal mucosa. Do not administer capsules that are cracked or leaking.
People who are pregnant or may become pregnant should not handle/administer dutasteride; tamsulosin capsules. If a pregnant individual gets enough dutasteride through their skin after handling this product, the drug could harm the unborn fetus. If skin contact with a leaking capsule occurs, the affected area should be washed with soap and water immediately.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    One capsule (0.5 mg dutasteride/0.4 mg tamsulosin) per day PO.
    Name
    Elderly
    Max Dosage
    One capsule (0.5 mg dutasteride/0.4 mg tamsulosin) per day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Dutasteride; tamsulosin is contraindicated.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Dutasteride; tamsulosin is contraindicated.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Dutasteride; tamsulosin is contraindicated.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in moderate to severe hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed. Since dutasteride; tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by the liver, use with caution in patients with severe hepatic impairment.
  Renal Impairment
  CrCl >= 10 mL/min: No dosage adjustment is necessary.
CrCl < 10 mL/min: No specific guidelines for dosage adjustments are available; patients with CrCl < 10 mL/min have not been studied.
