=== Aliskiren — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 3555)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Aliskiren is a direct renin inhibitor indicated for the treatment of hypertension, either alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents in adults and pediatric patients 6 years and older who weigh 50 kg or greater.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 300 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): dizziness, fatigue, headache, cough, infection, pharyngitis, gout, hyperuricemia, nephrolithiasis, rash (unspecified), stevens-johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. ACE inhibitor induced angioedema, ARB induced angioedema Use aliskiren with caution in individuals with a history of ACE inhibitor induced angioedema or ARB induced angioedema.

ALISKIREN

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Tekturna

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of hypertension either as monotherapy or in combination with other antihypertensive agents

Oral dosage
Adults


150 mg PO once daily, initially. May increase dose to 300 mg PO once daily if further control is needed. Doses above 300 mg/day do not produce greater efficacy and result in an increase in diarrhea. Usual dose range: 150 to 300 mg/day.


Children and Adolescents 6 to 17 years weighing 50 kg or more


150 mg PO once daily, initially. May increase dose to 300 mg PO once daily if further control is needed. Doses above 300 mg/day do not produce greater efficacy and result in an increase in diarrhea.


Children and Adolescents 6 to 17 years weighing 20 kg to 49 kg


75 mg PO once daily, initially. May increase dose to 150 mg PO once daily if further control is needed. In clinical trials, aliskiren was shown to be safe and effective in this patient population; however, the pellets, which allow for a dose of 75 mg, have been discontinued by the manufacturer.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

ACE inhibitor induced angioedema, ARB induced angioedema


Use aliskiren with caution in individuals with a history of ACE inhibitor induced angioedema or ARB induced angioedema. Angioedema has been reported with aliskiren therapy in individuals with and without a history of ACE inhibitor induced angioedema or ARB induced angioedema. Individuals with a history of airway surgery are at a higher risk for airway obstruction, which may be fatal, if angioedema occurs.


hyponatremia, hypovolemia


Aliskiren may cause symptomatic hypotension in individuals with hypovolemia, hyponatremia (i.e., salt-depleted), or taking concomitant therapy with other medications that act on the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS). Correct volume and salt depletion prior to administration of aliskiren or initiate therapy under close medical supervision. A transient hypotensive response is not a contraindication to further treatment and, usually, individuals may continue aliskiren therapy following blood pressure stabilization.


diabetes mellitus, heart failure, myocardial infarction, renal disease


Aliskiren can cause hyperkalemia. Risk factors for the development of hyperkalemia include chronic renal disease, diabetes mellitus, and concomitant use of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors), angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs), non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents (NSAIDs), potassium-sparing diuretics, potassium supplements, and/or potassium-containing salt substitutes. Individuals whose renal function may depend in part on the activity of the renin-angiotensin system (e.g., individuals with renal artery stenosis, severe heart failure, post-myocardial infarction or volume depletion) may be at particular risk for developing acute renal failure on aliskiren. Consider holding or discontinuing therapy in individuals who develop a clinically significant reduction in renal function while receiving aliskiren. Monitor renal function and potassium periodically in individuals receiving aliskiren therapy.


diabetes when coadministered with certain medications


Aliskiren is contraindicated in individuals with diabetes when coadministered with certain medications, specifically angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs). Due to the increased risk of hypotension, hyperkalemia, and adverse renal effects, including acute renal failure, it is generally recommended to avoid coadministration of aliskiren with an ACE inhibitor or ARB, particularly in individuals with a creatinine clearance less than 60 mL/minute.


children, infants, neonates


Aliskiren is contraindicated in children less than 2 years of age, including infants and neonates, due to the risk of elevated aliskiren exposures. In studies involving juvenile animals, higher aliskiren exposures were observed due to the immaturity of metabolizing enzymes and aliskiren transporters. Avoid the use of aliskiren in children aged 2 to less than 6 years of age or in children 6 years of age and older weighing less than 20 kg, as there is limited information on aliskiren metabolism and exposures in this population. No data is available on the use of aliskiren in pediatric individuals with a glomerular filtration rate less than 30 mL/minute/1.73 m2.


pregnancy


Once pregnancy is detected, discontinue aliskiren as soon as possible. Use of medications that affect the renin-angiotensin system (RAS), such as aliskiren, are generally not recommended for use during pregnancy. Use of RAS inhibitors during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy is associated with reduced fetal renal function and increased risks of fetal and neonatal morbidity and mortality. Exposure to these agents in pregnancy may result in adverse outcomes including fetal death, hypotension, neonatal skull hypoplasia, craniofacial abnormalities, fetal limb contractures, hypoplastic lung development, anuria, fetal growth restriction, and both reversible and irreversible renal failure. Additionally, cases of oligohydramnios and anhydramnios have been reported. Development of oligohydramnios may be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations. Use of RAS inhibitors during the first trimester of pregnancy may increase the risk of fetal harm, such as congenital malformations; however, available data are conflicting. In rare cases when another antihypertensive agent cannot be used to treat a pregnant patient, serial ultrasound examinations should be performed to assess the intra-amniotic environment. If oligohydramnios is observed, discontinue aliskiren unless it is considered life-saving for the pregnant individual. Oligohydramnios may not appear until after the fetus has sustained irreversible injury.


embryo-fetal toxicity, people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk


Counsel people who may become pregnant about the reproductive risk and embryo-fetal toxicity associated with medications that affect the renin-angiotensin system (RAS), such as aliskiren. Use of RAS inhibitors during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy is associated with reduced fetal renal function and increased risks of fetal and neonatal morbidity and mortality.
65551



neonates and infants exposed to this medication in utero


Closely observe neonates and infants exposed to this medication in utero for hypotension, oliguria, and hyperkalemia. If oliguria or hypotension occurs, blood pressure and renal perfusion support may be required, as well as exchange transfusion or dialysis to reverse hypotension and/or support decreased renal function.


breast-feeding


Use aliskiren with caution in breast-feeding patients. There is no data on the presence of aliskiren in human milk, its effects on the breastfed child, or its effects on milk production. However, due to its high molecular weight and low oral absorption, it is unlikely an infant would receive a therapeutic dose from breast milk. Potential adverse effects in a child exposed to aliskiren during lactation include hypotension, hyperkalemia, and renal impairment. Avoid use while breast-feeding premature infants due to undeveloped nephrons of the kidney. Consider the use of other antihypertensives with more data, such as ramipril, captopril, enalapril, labetalol, and nifedipine, in lactating individuals. 


Pregnancy And Lactation


Once pregnancy is detected, discontinue aliskiren as soon as possible. Use of medications that affect the renin-angiotensin system (RAS), such as aliskiren, are generally not recommended for use during pregnancy. Use of RAS inhibitors during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy is associated with reduced fetal renal function and increased risks of fetal and neonatal morbidity and mortality. Exposure to these agents in pregnancy may result in adverse outcomes including fetal death, hypotension, neonatal skull hypoplasia, craniofacial abnormalities, fetal limb contractures, hypoplastic lung development, anuria, fetal growth restriction, and both reversible and irreversible renal failure. Additionally, cases of oligohydramnios and anhydramnios have been reported. Development of oligohydramnios may be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations. Use of RAS inhibitors during the first trimester of pregnancy may increase the risk of fetal harm, such as congenital malformations; however, available data are conflicting. In rare cases when another antihypertensive agent cannot be used to treat a pregnant patient, serial ultrasound examinations should be performed to assess the intra-amniotic environment. If oligohydramnios is observed, discontinue aliskiren unless it is considered life-saving for the pregnant individual. Oligohydramnios may not appear until after the fetus has sustained irreversible injury.


Interactions

Acetaminophen; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) NSAIDs may attenuate the antihypertensive effects of aliskiren by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function who are being treated with NSAIDs, the coadministration of aliskiren may result in a further deterioration of renal function, including acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Therefore, blood pressure and renal function should be monitored closely when an NSAID is administered to a patient taking aliskiren.
aMILoride: (Moderate) Due to the risk of hyperkalemia, drugs that increase serum potassium concentration, such as potassium-sparing diuretics, should be used cautiously in patients taking aliskiren. Electrolytes should be routinely monitored in patients receiving aliskiren. Aliskiren can enhance the effects of diuretics on blood pressure if given concomitantly. This additive effect may be desirable, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly. Also, patients with hyponatremia or hypovolemia may become hypotensive and/or develop reversible renal insufficiency when given aliskiren and diuretics.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Due to the risk of hyperkalemia, drugs that increase serum potassium concentration, such as potassium-sparing diuretics, should be used cautiously in patients taking aliskiren. Electrolytes should be routinely monitored in patients receiving aliskiren. Aliskiren can enhance the effects of diuretics on blood pressure if given concomitantly. This additive effect may be desirable, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly. Also, patients with hyponatremia or hypovolemia may become hypotensive and/or develop reversible renal insufficiency when given aliskiren and diuretics.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Coadministration of atorvastatin resulted in an approximate 50% increase in aliskiren Cmax and AUC after multiple doses; the pharmacokinetics of atorvastatin were not affected. Monitor blood pressure in patients taking both of these medications.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Major) Aliskiren-containing products are contraindicated in combination with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) in patients with diabetes mellitus. In general, avoid combined use of two renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) inhibitors, particularly in patients with CrCl less than 60 mL/minute. Combination therapy increases the risk for hyperkalemia, renal impairment, and other side effects. Most patients receiving a comination of two RAAS inhibitors, such as ACE inhibitors and aliskiren do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes if aliskiren must be combined with another RAAS inhibitor. In the ALTITUDE trial, patients with type 2 diabetes and renal impairment, a population at high risk for cardiovascular and renal events, were given aliskiren in addition to ACE inhibitors or ARBs. The trial was stopped early because aliskiren was associated with an increased risk of non-fatal stroke, renal complications, hyperkalemia, and hypotension. In the Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial, no additional benefit over monotherapy was seen in patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril compared to monotherapy; however, there was an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute renal injury.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) NSAIDs may attenuate the antihypertensive effects of aliskiren by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function who are being treated with NSAIDs, the coadministration of aliskiren may result in a further deterioration of renal function, including acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Therefore, blood pressure and renal function should be monitored closely when an NSAID is administered to a patient taking aliskiren.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Major) Aliskiren-containing products are contraindicated in combination with angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs) in patients with diabetes mellitus. In general, avoid combined use of two renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) inhibitors, particularly in patients with CrCl less than 60 mL/minute. Combination therapy increases the risk for hyperkalemia, renal impairment, hypotension, and other side effects. Most patients receiving a comination of two RAAS inhibitors, such as ARBs and aliskiren, do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes if aliskiren must be combined with another RAAS inhibitor. In the ALTITUDE trial, patients with type 2 diabetes and renal impairment, a population at high risk for cardiovascular and renal events, were given aliskiren in addition to ACE inhibitors or ARBs. The trial was stopped early because aliskiren was associated with an increased risk of non-fatal stroke, renal complications, hyperkalemia, and hypotension. In the Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial, no additional benefit over monotherapy was seen in patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril compared to monotherapy; however, there was an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute renal injury.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Major) Aliskiren-containing products are contraindicated in combination with angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs) in patients with diabetes mellitus. In general, avoid combined use of two renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) inhibitors, particularly in patients with CrCl less than 60 mL/minute. Combination therapy increases the risk for hyperkalemia, renal impairment, hypotension, and other side effects. Most patients receiving a comination of two RAAS inhibitors, such as ARBs and aliskiren, do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes if aliskiren must be combined with another RAAS inhibitor. In the ALTITUDE trial, patients with type 2 diabetes and renal impairment, a population at high risk for cardiovascular and renal events, were given aliskiren in addition to ACE inhibitors or ARBs. The trial was stopped early because aliskiren was associated with an increased risk of non-fatal stroke, renal complications, hyperkalemia, and hypotension. In the Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial, no additional benefit over monotherapy was seen in patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril compared to monotherapy; however, there was an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute renal injury.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Aliskiren-containing products are contraindicated in combination with angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs) in patients with diabetes mellitus. In general, avoid combined use of two renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) inhibitors, particularly in patients with CrCl less than 60 mL/minute. Combination therapy increases the risk for hyperkalemia, renal impairment, hypotension, and other side effects. Most patients receiving a comination of two RAAS inhibitors, such as ARBs and aliskiren, do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes if aliskiren must be combined with another RAAS inhibitor. In the ALTITUDE trial, patients with type 2 diabetes and renal impairment, a population at high risk for cardiovascular and renal events, were given aliskiren in addition to ACE inhibitors or ARBs. The trial was stopped early because aliskiren was associated with an increased risk of non-fatal stroke, renal complications, hyperkalemia, and hypotension. In the Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial, no additional benefit over monotherapy was seen in patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril compared to monotherapy; however, there was an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute renal injury.
Amobarbital: (Moderate) Concurrent use of amobarbital with antihypertensive agents may lead to hypotension. Monitor for decreases in blood pressure during times of coadministration.
Angiotensin II receptor antagonists: (Major) Aliskiren-containing products are contraindicated in combination with angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs) in patients with diabetes mellitus. In general, avoid combined use of two renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) inhibitors, particularly in patients with CrCl less than 60 mL/minute. Combination therapy increases the risk for hyperkalemia, renal impairment, hypotension, and other side effects. Most patients receiving a comination of two RAAS inhibitors, such as ARBs and aliskiren, do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes if aliskiren must be combined with another RAAS inhibitor. In the ALTITUDE trial, patients with type 2 diabetes and renal impairment, a population at high risk for cardiovascular and renal events, were given aliskiren in addition to ACE inhibitors or ARBs. The trial was stopped early because aliskiren was associated with an increased risk of non-fatal stroke, renal complications, hyperkalemia, and hypotension. In the Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial, no additional benefit over monotherapy was seen in patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril compared to monotherapy; however, there was an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute renal injury.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors: (Major) Aliskiren-containing products are contraindicated in combination with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) in patients with diabetes mellitus. In general, avoid combined use of two renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) inhibitors, particularly in patients with CrCl less than 60 mL/minute. Combination therapy increases the risk for hyperkalemia, renal impairment, and other side effects. Most patients receiving a comination of two RAAS inhibitors, such as ACE inhibitors and aliskiren do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes if aliskiren must be combined with another RAAS inhibitor. In the ALTITUDE trial, patients with type 2 diabetes and renal impairment, a population at high risk for cardiovascular and renal events, were given aliskiren in addition to ACE inhibitors or ARBs. The trial was stopped early because aliskiren was associated with an increased risk of non-fatal stroke, renal complications, hyperkalemia, and hypotension. In the Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial, no additional benefit over monotherapy was seen in patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril compared to monotherapy; however, there was an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute renal injury.
Apomorphine: (Moderate) Use of aliskiren and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Apraclonidine: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Moderate) Use caution if aliskiren and aprepitant, fosaprepitant are used concurrently and monitor for an increase in aliskiren-related adverse effects for several days after administration of a multi-day aprepitant regimen. Aliskiren is a CYP3A4 substrate. Aprepitant, when administered as a 3-day oral regimen (125 mg/80 mg/80 mg), is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and inducer and may increase plasma concentrations of aliskiren. For example, a 5-day oral aprepitant regimen increased the AUC of another CYP3A4 substrate, midazolam (single dose), by 2.3-fold on day 1 and by 3.3-fold on day 5. After a 3-day oral aprepitant regimen, the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1, 4, 8, and 15) increased by 25% on day 4, and then decreased by 19% and 4% on days 8 and 15, respectively. As a single 125 mg or 40 mg oral dose, the inhibitory effect of aprepitant on CYP3A4 is weak, with the AUC of midazolam increased by 1.5-fold and 1.2-fold, respectively. After administration, fosaprepitant is rapidly converted to aprepitant and shares many of the same drug interactions. However, as a single 150 mg intravenous dose, fosaprepitant only weakly inhibits CYP3A4 for a duration of 2 days; there is no evidence of CYP3A4 induction. Fosaprepitant 150 mg IV as a single dose increased the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1 and 4) by approximately 1.8-fold on day 1; there was no effect on day 4. Less than a 2-fold increase in the midazolam AUC is not considered clinically important.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including aliskiren, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
Asenapine: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Atazanavir: (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of aliskiren may be elevated when administered concurrently with atazanavir. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects, such as decreased blood pressure, is recommended during coadministration. Atazanavir is a CYP3A4 inhibitor. Aliskiren is a substrate of CYP3A4.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of aliskiren may be elevated when administered concurrently with atazanavir. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects, such as decreased blood pressure, is recommended during coadministration. Atazanavir is a CYP3A4 inhibitor. Aliskiren is a substrate of CYP3A4. (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of aliskiren may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects, such as decreased blood pressure, is recommended during coadministration. Cobicistat is a CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inhibitor and aliskiren is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate.
Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Coadministration of atorvastatin resulted in an approximate 50% increase in aliskiren Cmax and AUC after multiple doses; the pharmacokinetics of atorvastatin were not affected. Monitor blood pressure in patients taking both of these medications.
Azilsartan: (Major) Aliskiren-containing products are contraindicated in combination with angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs) in patients with diabetes mellitus. In general, avoid combined use of two renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) inhibitors, particularly in patients with CrCl less than 60 mL/minute. Combination therapy increases the risk for hyperkalemia, renal impairment, hypotension, and other side effects. Most patients receiving a comination of two RAAS inhibitors, such as ARBs and aliskiren, do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes if aliskiren must be combined with another RAAS inhibitor. In the ALTITUDE trial, patients with type 2 diabetes and renal impairment, a population at high risk for cardiovascular and renal events, were given aliskiren in addition to ACE inhibitors or ARBs. The trial was stopped early because aliskiren was associated with an increased risk of non-fatal stroke, renal complications, hyperkalemia, and hypotension. In the Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial, no additional benefit over monotherapy was seen in patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril compared to monotherapy; however, there was an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute renal injury.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Major) Aliskiren-containing products are contraindicated in combination with angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs) in patients with diabetes mellitus. In general, avoid combined use of two renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) inhibitors, particularly in patients with CrCl less than 60 mL/minute. Combination therapy increases the risk for hyperkalemia, renal impairment, hypotension, and other side effects. Most patients receiving a comination of two RAAS inhibitors, such as ARBs and aliskiren, do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes if aliskiren must be combined with another RAAS inhibitor. In the ALTITUDE trial, patients with type 2 diabetes and renal impairment, a population at high risk for cardiovascular and renal events, were given aliskiren in addition to ACE inhibitors or ARBs. The trial was stopped early because aliskiren was associated with an increased risk of non-fatal stroke, renal complications, hyperkalemia, and hypotension. In the Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial, no additional benefit over monotherapy was seen in patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril compared to monotherapy; however, there was an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute renal injury.
Benazepril: (Major) Aliskiren-containing products are contraindicated in combination with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) in patients with diabetes mellitus. In general, avoid combined use of two renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) inhibitors, particularly in patients with CrCl less than 60 mL/minute. Combination therapy increases the risk for hyperkalemia, renal impairment, and other side effects. Most patients receiving a comination of two RAAS inhibitors, such as ACE inhibitors and aliskiren do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes if aliskiren must be combined with another RAAS inhibitor. In the ALTITUDE trial, patients with type 2 diabetes and renal impairment, a population at high risk for cardiovascular and renal events, were given aliskiren in addition to ACE inhibitors or ARBs. The trial was stopped early because aliskiren was associated with an increased risk of non-fatal stroke, renal complications, hyperkalemia, and hypotension. In the Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial, no additional benefit over monotherapy was seen in patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril compared to monotherapy; however, there was an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute renal injury.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Aliskiren-containing products are contraindicated in combination with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) in patients with diabetes mellitus. In general, avoid combined use of two renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) inhibitors, particularly in patients with CrCl less than 60 mL/minute. Combination therapy increases the risk for hyperkalemia, renal impairment, and other side effects. Most patients receiving a comination of two RAAS inhibitors, such as ACE inhibitors and aliskiren do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes if aliskiren must be combined with another RAAS inhibitor. In the ALTITUDE trial, patients with type 2 diabetes and renal impairment, a population at high risk for cardiovascular and renal events, were given aliskiren in addition to ACE inhibitors or ARBs. The trial was stopped early because aliskiren was associated with an increased risk of non-fatal stroke, renal complications, hyperkalemia, and hypotension. In the Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial, no additional benefit over monotherapy was seen in patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril compared to monotherapy; however, there was an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute renal injury.
Bumetanide: (Moderate) Aliskiren can enhance the effects of loop-diuretics on blood pressure if given concomitantly. This additive effect may be desirable, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly. Patients with hyponatremia or hypovolemia may also develop reversible renal insufficiency. When aliskiren is administered in combination with furosemide, the AUC and Cmax of furosemide are reduced by approximately 30% and 50%, respectively; the pharmacokinetics of aliskiren are not affected. Patients should be monitored for loss of effect of furosemide when aliskiren is initiated. Blood pressure and electrolytes should be routinely monitored.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including aliskiren, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Moderate) NSAIDs may attenuate the antihypertensive effects of aliskiren by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function who are being treated with NSAIDs, the coadministration of aliskiren may result in a further deterioration of renal function, including acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Therefore, blood pressure and renal function should be monitored closely when an NSAID is administered to a patient taking aliskiren.
Cabergoline: (Moderate) Cabergoline should be used cautiously with antihypertensive agents, including aliskiren. Cabergoline has been associated with hypotension in some instances. Initial doses of cabergoline higher than 1 mg may produce orthostatic hypotension. It may be advisable to monitor blood pressure.
Candesartan: (Major) Aliskiren-containing products are contraindicated in combination with angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs) in patients with diabetes mellitus. In general, avoid combined use of two renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) inhibitors, particularly in patients with CrCl less than 60 mL/minute. Combination therapy increases the risk for hyperkalemia, renal impairment, hypotension, and other side effects. Most patients receiving a comination of two RAAS inhibitors, such as ARBs and aliskiren, do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes if aliskiren must be combined with another RAAS inhibitor. In the ALTITUDE trial, patients with type 2 diabetes and renal impairment, a population at high risk for cardiovascular and renal events, were given aliskiren in addition to ACE inhibitors or ARBs. The trial was stopped early because aliskiren was associated with an increased risk of non-fatal stroke, renal complications, hyperkalemia, and hypotension. In the Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial, no additional benefit over monotherapy was seen in patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril compared to monotherapy; however, there was an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute renal injury.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Aliskiren-containing products are contraindicated in combination with angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs) in patients with diabetes mellitus. In general, avoid combined use of two renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) inhibitors, particularly in patients with CrCl less than 60 mL/minute. Combination therapy increases the risk for hyperkalemia, renal impairment, hypotension, and other side effects. Most patients receiving a comination of two RAAS inhibitors, such as ARBs and aliskiren, do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes if aliskiren must be combined with another RAAS inhibitor. In the ALTITUDE trial, patients with type 2 diabetes and renal impairment, a population at high risk for cardiovascular and renal events, were given aliskiren in addition to ACE inhibitors or ARBs. The trial was stopped early because aliskiren was associated with an increased risk of non-fatal stroke, renal complications, hyperkalemia, and hypotension. In the Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial, no additional benefit over monotherapy was seen in patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril compared to monotherapy; however, there was an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute renal injury.
Captopril: (Major) Aliskiren-containing products are contraindicated in combination with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) in patients with diabetes mellitus. In general, avoid combined use of two renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) inhibitors, particularly in patients with CrCl less than 60 mL/minute. Combination therapy increases the risk for hyperkalemia, renal impairment, and other side effects. Most patients receiving a comination of two RAAS inhibitors, such as ACE inhibitors and aliskiren do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes if aliskiren must be combined with another RAAS inhibitor. In the ALTITUDE trial, patients with type 2 diabetes and renal impairment, a population at high risk for cardiovascular and renal events, were given aliskiren in addition to ACE inhibitors or ARBs. The trial was stopped early because aliskiren was associated with an increased risk of non-fatal stroke, renal complications, hyperkalemia, and hypotension. In the Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial, no additional benefit over monotherapy was seen in patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril compared to monotherapy; however, there was an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute renal injury.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Aliskiren-containing products are contraindicated in combination with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) in patients with diabetes mellitus. In general, avoid combined use of two renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) inhibitors, particularly in patients with CrCl less than 60 mL/minute. Combination therapy increases the risk for hyperkalemia, renal impairment, and other side effects. Most patients receiving a comination of two RAAS inhibitors, such as ACE inhibitors and aliskiren do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes if aliskiren must be combined with another RAAS inhibitor. In the ALTITUDE trial, patients with type 2 diabetes and renal impairment, a population at high risk for cardiovascular and renal events, were given aliskiren in addition to ACE inhibitors or ARBs. The trial was stopped early because aliskiren was associated with an increased risk of non-fatal stroke, renal complications, hyperkalemia, and hypotension. In the Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial, no additional benefit over monotherapy was seen in patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril compared to monotherapy; however, there was an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute renal injury.
Cariprazine: (Moderate) Orthostatic vital signs should be monitored in patients who are at risk for hypotension, such as those receiving cariprazine in combination with antihypertensive agents. Atypical antipsychotics may cause orthostatic hypotension and syncope, most commonly during treatment initiation and dosage increases. Patients should be informed about measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning, or rising slowly from a seated position. Consider a cariprazine dose reduction if hypotension occurs.
Celecoxib: (Moderate) NSAIDs may attenuate the antihypertensive effects of aliskiren by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function who are being treated with NSAIDs, the coadministration of aliskiren may result in a further deterioration of renal function, including acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Therefore, blood pressure and renal function should be monitored closely when an NSAID is administered to a patient taking aliskiren.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) NSAIDs may attenuate the antihypertensive effects of aliskiren by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function who are being treated with NSAIDs, the coadministration of aliskiren may result in a further deterioration of renal function, including acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Therefore, blood pressure and renal function should be monitored closely when an NSAID is administered to a patient taking aliskiren.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) NSAIDs may attenuate the antihypertensive effects of aliskiren by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function who are being treated with NSAIDs, the coadministration of aliskiren may result in a further deterioration of renal function, including acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Therefore, blood pressure and renal function should be monitored closely when an NSAID is administered to a patient taking aliskiren.
Ciprofloxacin: (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of aliskiren may be elevated when administered concurrently with ciprofloxacin. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects, such as decreased blood pressure, is recommended during coadministration. Ciprofloxacin is a CYP3A4 inhibitor and aliskiren is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Citric Acid; Potassium Citrate; Sodium Citrate: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and aliskiren are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Cobicistat: (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of aliskiren may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects, such as decreased blood pressure, is recommended during coadministration. Cobicistat is a CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inhibitor and aliskiren is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate.
Co-Enzyme Q10, Ubiquinone: (Moderate) Co-enzyme Q10, ubiquinone (CoQ10) may lower blood pressure. CoQ10 use in combination with antihypertensive agents may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients who choose to take CoQ10 concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring. Patients should be advised to inform their prescriber of their use of CoQ10.
cycloSPORINE: (Major) Concomitant use of aliskiren with cyclosporine is not recommended because of significantly increased aliskiren blood concentrations and an increase in the number and/or intensity of adverse events such as headache, hot flushes, nausea, vomiting, and somnolence. Cyclosporine is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Aliskiren is a substrate of CYP3A4 and P-gp. As compared with aliskiren monotherapy, the maximum serum concentration (Cmax) of aliskiren was increased approximately 2.5-fold, and the systemic exposure was increased approximately 4.3-fold after a single 75 mg dose was given with a single cyclosporine 200 mg dose to healthy patients. Also, as compared with aliskiren receipt alone, prolongation of the median aliskiren elimination half-life (43 to 45 hours versus 26 hours) and the time to the maximum serum concentration (1.5 to 2 hours versus 0.5 hours) were noted. The mean systemic exposure and Cmax of cyclosporine were comparable to reported literature values.
Darunavir: (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of aliskiren may be elevated when administered concurrently with darunavir. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects, such as decreased blood pressure, is recommended during coadministration. Darunavir is a CYP3A4 inhibitor. Aliskiren is a substrate of CYP3A4.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of aliskiren may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects, such as decreased blood pressure, is recommended during coadministration. Cobicistat is a CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inhibitor and aliskiren is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate. (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of aliskiren may be elevated when administered concurrently with darunavir. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects, such as decreased blood pressure, is recommended during coadministration. Darunavir is a CYP3A4 inhibitor. Aliskiren is a substrate of CYP3A4.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of aliskiren may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects, such as decreased blood pressure, is recommended during coadministration. Cobicistat is a CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inhibitor and aliskiren is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate. (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of aliskiren may be elevated when administered concurrently with darunavir. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects, such as decreased blood pressure, is recommended during coadministration. Darunavir is a CYP3A4 inhibitor. Aliskiren is a substrate of CYP3A4.
Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents, including aliskiren. Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidates and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives.
Diazoxide: (Moderate) Aliskiren can enhance the effects of vasodilators on blood pressure if given concomitantly. This additive effect may be desirable, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly. Blood pressure and electrolytes should be routinely monitored in patients receiving aliskiren.
Diclofenac: (Moderate) NSAIDs may attenuate the antihypertensive effects of aliskiren by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function who are being treated with NSAIDs, the coadministration of aliskiren may result in a further deterioration of renal function, including acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Therefore, blood pressure and renal function should be monitored closely when an NSAID is administered to a patient taking aliskiren.
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Moderate) NSAIDs may attenuate the antihypertensive effects of aliskiren by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function who are being treated with NSAIDs, the coadministration of aliskiren may result in a further deterioration of renal function, including acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Therefore, blood pressure and renal function should be monitored closely when an NSAID is administered to a patient taking aliskiren.
Diflunisal: (Moderate) NSAIDs may attenuate the antihypertensive effects of aliskiren by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function who are being treated with NSAIDs, the coadministration of aliskiren may result in a further deterioration of renal function, including acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Therefore, blood pressure and renal function should be monitored closely when an NSAID is administered to a patient taking aliskiren.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) NSAIDs may attenuate the antihypertensive effects of aliskiren by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function who are being treated with NSAIDs, the coadministration of aliskiren may result in a further deterioration of renal function, including acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Therefore, blood pressure and renal function should be monitored closely when an NSAID is administered to a patient taking aliskiren.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) NSAIDs may attenuate the antihypertensive effects of aliskiren by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function who are being treated with NSAIDs, the coadministration of aliskiren may result in a further deterioration of renal function, including acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Therefore, blood pressure and renal function should be monitored closely when an NSAID is administered to a patient taking aliskiren.
Dronedarone: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A. Aliskiren is a substrate for CYP3A4. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP3A substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
Drospirenone: (Moderate) Drospirenone has antimineralocorticoid effects and may increase serum potassium, therefore concurrent use of aliskiren may increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment. Monitor serum potassium during the 1st month of drospirenone treatment if aliskiren is used concurrently and thereafter as clinically indicated. Also monitor for any changes in blood pressure, fluid retention, or renal function.
Drospirenone; Estetrol: (Moderate) Drospirenone has antimineralocorticoid effects and may increase serum potassium, therefore concurrent use of aliskiren may increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment. Monitor serum potassium during the 1st month of drospirenone treatment if aliskiren is used concurrently and thereafter as clinically indicated. Also monitor for any changes in blood pressure, fluid retention, or renal function.
Drospirenone; Estradiol: (Moderate) Drospirenone has antimineralocorticoid effects and may increase serum potassium, therefore concurrent use of aliskiren may increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment. Monitor serum potassium during the 1st month of drospirenone treatment if aliskiren is used concurrently and thereafter as clinically indicated. Also monitor for any changes in blood pressure, fluid retention, or renal function.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Drospirenone has antimineralocorticoid effects and may increase serum potassium, therefore concurrent use of aliskiren may increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment. Monitor serum potassium during the 1st month of drospirenone treatment if aliskiren is used concurrently and thereafter as clinically indicated. Also monitor for any changes in blood pressure, fluid retention, or renal function.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Moderate) Drospirenone has antimineralocorticoid effects and may increase serum potassium, therefore concurrent use of aliskiren may increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment. Monitor serum potassium during the 1st month of drospirenone treatment if aliskiren is used concurrently and thereafter as clinically indicated. Also monitor for any changes in blood pressure, fluid retention, or renal function.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension and syncope have been reported during duloxetine administration. The concurrent administration of antihypertensive agents and duloxetine may increase the risk of hypotension. Monitor blood pressure if the combination is necessary.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of aliskiren may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects, such as decreased blood pressure, is recommended during coadministration. Cobicistat is a CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inhibitor and aliskiren is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of aliskiren may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects, such as decreased blood pressure, is recommended during coadministration. Cobicistat is a CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inhibitor and aliskiren is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate.
Enalapril, Enalaprilat: (Major) Aliskiren-containing products are contraindicated in combination with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) in patients with diabetes mellitus. In general, avoid combined use of two renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) inhibitors, particularly in patients with CrCl less than 60 mL/minute. Combination therapy increases the risk for hyperkalemia, renal impairment, and other side effects. Most patients receiving a comination of two RAAS inhibitors, such as ACE inhibitors and aliskiren do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes if aliskiren must be combined with another RAAS inhibitor. In the ALTITUDE trial, patients with type 2 diabetes and renal impairment, a population at high risk for cardiovascular and renal events, were given aliskiren in addition to ACE inhibitors or ARBs. The trial was stopped early because aliskiren was associated with an increased risk of non-fatal stroke, renal complications, hyperkalemia, and hypotension. In the Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial, no additional benefit over monotherapy was seen in patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril compared to monotherapy; however, there was an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute renal injury.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Aliskiren-containing products are contraindicated in combination with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) in patients with diabetes mellitus. In general, avoid combined use of two renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) inhibitors, particularly in patients with CrCl less than 60 mL/minute. Combination therapy increases the risk for hyperkalemia, renal impairment, and other side effects. Most patients receiving a comination of two RAAS inhibitors, such as ACE inhibitors and aliskiren do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes if aliskiren must be combined with another RAAS inhibitor. In the ALTITUDE trial, patients with type 2 diabetes and renal impairment, a population at high risk for cardiovascular and renal events, were given aliskiren in addition to ACE inhibitors or ARBs. The trial was stopped early because aliskiren was associated with an increased risk of non-fatal stroke, renal complications, hyperkalemia, and hypotension. In the Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial, no additional benefit over monotherapy was seen in patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril compared to monotherapy; however, there was an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute renal injury.
EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including aliskiren, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
Epoprostenol: (Moderate) Aliskiren can enhance the effects of epoprostenol on blood pressure if given concomitantly. This additive effect may be desirable, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly. Blood pressure and electrolytes should be routinely monitored in patients receiving aliskiren.
Ethacrynic Acid: (Moderate) Aliskiren can enhance the effects of loop-diuretics on blood pressure if given concomitantly. This additive effect may be desirable, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly. Patients with hyponatremia or hypovolemia may also develop reversible renal insufficiency. When aliskiren is administered in combination with furosemide, the AUC and Cmax of furosemide are reduced by approximately 30% and 50%, respectively; the pharmacokinetics of aliskiren are not affected. Patients should be monitored for loss of effect of furosemide when aliskiren is initiated. Blood pressure and electrolytes should be routinely monitored.
Etodolac: (Moderate) NSAIDs may attenuate the antihypertensive effects of aliskiren by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function who are being treated with NSAIDs, the coadministration of aliskiren may result in a further deterioration of renal function, including acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Therefore, blood pressure and renal function should be monitored closely when an NSAID is administered to a patient taking aliskiren.
Etomidate: (Moderate) General anesthtics may be associated with hypotension; however the frequency is less than with inhalational anesthetic agents. Concomitant use with aliskiren may increase the risk of developing hypotension.
Fenoldopam: (Moderate) Aliskiren can enhance the effects of vasodilators on blood pressure if given concomitantly. This additive effect may be desirable, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly. Blood pressure and electrolytes should be routinely monitored in patients receiving aliskiren.
Fenoprofen: (Moderate) NSAIDs may attenuate the antihypertensive effects of aliskiren by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function who are being treated with NSAIDs, the coadministration of aliskiren may result in a further deterioration of renal function, including acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Therefore, blood pressure and renal function should be monitored closely when an NSAID is administered to a patient taking aliskiren.
Flurbiprofen: (Moderate) NSAIDs may attenuate the antihypertensive effects of aliskiren by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function who are being treated with NSAIDs, the coadministration of aliskiren may result in a further deterioration of renal function, including acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Therefore, blood pressure and renal function should be monitored closely when an NSAID is administered to a patient taking aliskiren.
Fosamprenavir: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering aliskiren with fosamprenavir, as concurrent use may alter the plasma concentrations of aliskiren. Aliskiren is a substrate for the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4 and the drug transporter P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Amprenavir, the active metabolite of fosamprenavir, is an inducer of P-gp and a potent inhibitor and moderate inducer of CYP3A4.
Fosinopril: (Major) Aliskiren-containing products are contraindicated in combination with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) in patients with diabetes mellitus. In general, avoid combined use of two renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) inhibitors, particularly in patients with CrCl less than 60 mL/minute. Combination therapy increases the risk for hyperkalemia, renal impairment, and other side effects. Most patients receiving a comination of two RAAS inhibitors, such as ACE inhibitors and aliskiren do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes if aliskiren must be combined with another RAAS inhibitor. In the ALTITUDE trial, patients with type 2 diabetes and renal impairment, a population at high risk for cardiovascular and renal events, were given aliskiren in addition to ACE inhibitors or ARBs. The trial was stopped early because aliskiren was associated with an increased risk of non-fatal stroke, renal complications, hyperkalemia, and hypotension. In the Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial, no additional benefit over monotherapy was seen in patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril compared to monotherapy; however, there was an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute renal injury.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Aliskiren-containing products are contraindicated in combination with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) in patients with diabetes mellitus. In general, avoid combined use of two renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) inhibitors, particularly in patients with CrCl less than 60 mL/minute. Combination therapy increases the risk for hyperkalemia, renal impairment, and other side effects. Most patients receiving a comination of two RAAS inhibitors, such as ACE inhibitors and aliskiren do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes if aliskiren must be combined with another RAAS inhibitor. In the ALTITUDE trial, patients with type 2 diabetes and renal impairment, a population at high risk for cardiovascular and renal events, were given aliskiren in addition to ACE inhibitors or ARBs. The trial was stopped early because aliskiren was associated with an increased risk of non-fatal stroke, renal complications, hyperkalemia, and hypotension. In the Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial, no additional benefit over monotherapy was seen in patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril compared to monotherapy; however, there was an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute renal injury.
Furosemide: (Moderate) Aliskiren can enhance the effects of loop-diuretics on blood pressure if given concomitantly. This additive effect may be desirable, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly. Patients with hyponatremia or hypovolemia may also develop reversible renal insufficiency. When aliskiren is administered in combination with furosemide, the AUC and Cmax of furosemide are reduced by approximately 30% and 50%, respectively; the pharmacokinetics of aliskiren are not affected. Patients should be monitored for loss of effect of furosemide when aliskiren is initiated. Blood pressure and electrolytes should be routinely monitored.
General anesthetics: (Moderate) General anesthtics may be associated with hypotension; however the frequency is less than with inhalational anesthetic agents. Concomitant use with aliskiren may increase the risk of developing hypotension.
Glecaprevir; Pibrentasvir: (Moderate) Caution is advised with the coadministration of glecaprevir and aliskiren as coadministration may increase serum concentrations of aliskiren and increase the risk of adverse effects. Aliskiren is a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp); glecaprevir is a P-gp inhibitor. (Moderate) Caution is advised with the coadministration of pibrentasvir and aliskiren as coadministration may increase serum concentrations of aliskiren and increase the risk of adverse effects. Aliskiren is a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp); pibrentasvir is a P-gp inhibitor.
hydrALAZINE: (Moderate) Aliskiren can enhance the effects of vasodilators on blood pressure if given concomitantly. This additive effect may be desirable, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly. Blood pressure and electrolytes should be routinely monitored in patients receiving aliskiren.
hydrALAZINE; Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Aliskiren can enhance the effects of vasodilators on blood pressure if given concomitantly. This additive effect may be desirable, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly. Blood pressure and electrolytes should be routinely monitored in patients receiving aliskiren.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Major) Aliskiren-containing products are contraindicated in combination with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) in patients with diabetes mellitus. In general, avoid combined use of two renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) inhibitors, particularly in patients with CrCl less than 60 mL/minute. Combination therapy increases the risk for hyperkalemia, renal impairment, and other side effects. Most patients receiving a comination of two RAAS inhibitors, such as ACE inhibitors and aliskiren do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes if aliskiren must be combined with another RAAS inhibitor. In the ALTITUDE trial, patients with type 2 diabetes and renal impairment, a population at high risk for cardiovascular and renal events, were given aliskiren in addition to ACE inhibitors or ARBs. The trial was stopped early because aliskiren was associated with an increased risk of non-fatal stroke, renal complications, hyperkalemia, and hypotension. In the Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial, no additional benefit over monotherapy was seen in patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril compared to monotherapy; however, there was an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute renal injury.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) NSAIDs may attenuate the antihypertensive effects of aliskiren by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function who are being treated with NSAIDs, the coadministration of aliskiren may result in a further deterioration of renal function, including acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Therefore, blood pressure and renal function should be monitored closely when an NSAID is administered to a patient taking aliskiren.
Ibritumomab Tiuxetan: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and aliskiren are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Ibuprofen: (Moderate) NSAIDs may attenuate the antihypertensive effects of aliskiren by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function who are being treated with NSAIDs, the coadministration of aliskiren may result in a further deterioration of renal function, including acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Therefore, blood pressure and renal function should be monitored closely when an NSAID is administered to a patient taking aliskiren.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Moderate) NSAIDs may attenuate the antihypertensive effects of aliskiren by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function who are being treated with NSAIDs, the coadministration of aliskiren may result in a further deterioration of renal function, including acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Therefore, blood pressure and renal function should be monitored closely when an NSAID is administered to a patient taking aliskiren.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) NSAIDs may attenuate the antihypertensive effects of aliskiren by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function who are being treated with NSAIDs, the coadministration of aliskiren may result in a further deterioration of renal function, including acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Therefore, blood pressure and renal function should be monitored closely when an NSAID is administered to a patient taking aliskiren.
Idelalisib: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of idelalisib, a strong CYP3A inhibitor, with aliskiren, a CYP3A substrate, as aliskiren toxicities may be significantly increased. The AUC of a sensitive CYP3A substrate was increased 5.4-fold when coadministered with idelalisib.
Iloperidone: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, iloperidone can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use with antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of iloperidone and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Iloprost: (Moderate) Aliskiren can enhance the effects of iloprost on blood pressure if given concomitantly. This additive effect may be desirable, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly. Blood pressure and electrolytes should be routinely monitored in patients receiving aliskiren.
Indapamide: (Moderate) Aliskiren can enhance the effects of indapamide on blood pressure if given concomitantly. This additive effect may be desirable, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly. Of note, patients with hyponatremia or hypovolemia may also develop reversible renal insufficiency when given aliskiren and diuretics concomitantly. Blood pressure and electrolytes should be routinely monitored in patients receiving aliskiren.
Indomethacin: (Moderate) NSAIDs may attenuate the antihypertensive effects of aliskiren by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function who are being treated with NSAIDs, the coadministration of aliskiren may result in a further deterioration of renal function, including acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Therefore, blood pressure and renal function should be monitored closely when an NSAID is administered to a patient taking aliskiren.
Iodine; Potassium Iodide, KI: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and aliskiren are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Irbesartan: (Major) Aliskiren-containing products are contraindicated in combination with angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs) in patients with diabetes mellitus. In general, avoid combined use of two renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) inhibitors, particularly in patients with CrCl less than 60 mL/minute. Combination therapy increases the risk for hyperkalemia, renal impairment, hypotension, and other side effects. Most patients receiving a comination of two RAAS inhibitors, such as ARBs and aliskiren, do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes if aliskiren must be combined with another RAAS inhibitor. In the ALTITUDE trial, patients with type 2 diabetes and renal impairment, a population at high risk for cardiovascular and renal events, were given aliskiren in addition to ACE inhibitors or ARBs. The trial was stopped early because aliskiren was associated with an increased risk of non-fatal stroke, renal complications, hyperkalemia, and hypotension. In the Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial, no additional benefit over monotherapy was seen in patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril compared to monotherapy; however, there was an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute renal injury.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Aliskiren-containing products are contraindicated in combination with angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs) in patients with diabetes mellitus. In general, avoid combined use of two renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) inhibitors, particularly in patients with CrCl less than 60 mL/minute. Combination therapy increases the risk for hyperkalemia, renal impairment, hypotension, and other side effects. Most patients receiving a comination of two RAAS inhibitors, such as ARBs and aliskiren, do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes if aliskiren must be combined with another RAAS inhibitor. In the ALTITUDE trial, patients with type 2 diabetes and renal impairment, a population at high risk for cardiovascular and renal events, were given aliskiren in addition to ACE inhibitors or ARBs. The trial was stopped early because aliskiren was associated with an increased risk of non-fatal stroke, renal complications, hyperkalemia, and hypotension. In the Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial, no additional benefit over monotherapy was seen in patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril compared to monotherapy; however, there was an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute renal injury.
Isavuconazonium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of isavuconazonium with aliskiren may result in increased serum concentrations of aliskiren. Aliskiren is a substrate of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; isavuconazole, the active moiety of isavuconazonium, is a moderate inhibitor of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together.
Isoflurane: (Moderate) General anesthtics may be associated with hypotension; however the frequency is less than with inhalational anesthetic agents. Concomitant use with aliskiren may increase the risk of developing hypotension.
Itraconazole: (Major) Avoid use of aliskiren during and for 2 weeks after discontinuation of itraconazole treatment due to increased aliskiren exposure. Coadministration of 100 mg itraconazole with 150 mg aliskiren resulted in an approximate 5.8-fold increase in Cmax and 6.5-fold increase in AUC of aliskiren.
Ketamine: (Moderate) General anesthtics may be associated with hypotension; however the frequency is less than with inhalational anesthetic agents. Concomitant use with aliskiren may increase the risk of developing hypotension.
Ketoconazole: (Moderate) Coadmistration of aliskiren with ketoconazole, causes a significant increase in the plasma concentration of aliskiren. When 200 mg of ketoconazole twice daily was administered with aliskiren, the plasma concentrations of aliskiren increased by 80%. Although a 400 mg dose of ketoconazole was not studied, it is expected that the higher dose would further increase plasma concentrations of aliskiren. Blood pressure should be monitored in patients taking both of these medications.
Ketoprofen: (Moderate) NSAIDs may attenuate the antihypertensive effects of aliskiren by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function who are being treated with NSAIDs, the coadministration of aliskiren may result in a further deterioration of renal function, including acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Therefore, blood pressure and renal function should be monitored closely when an NSAID is administered to a patient taking aliskiren.
Ketorolac: (Moderate) NSAIDs may attenuate the antihypertensive effects of aliskiren by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function who are being treated with NSAIDs, the coadministration of aliskiren may result in a further deterioration of renal function, including acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Therefore, blood pressure and renal function should be monitored closely when an NSAID is administered to a patient taking aliskiren.
Levoketoconazole: (Moderate) Coadmistration of aliskiren with ketoconazole, causes a significant increase in the plasma concentration of aliskiren. When 200 mg of ketoconazole twice daily was administered with aliskiren, the plasma concentrations of aliskiren increased by 80%. Although a 400 mg dose of ketoconazole was not studied, it is expected that the higher dose would further increase plasma concentrations of aliskiren. Blood pressure should be monitored in patients taking both of these medications.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including aliskiren, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
Lisdexamfetamine: (Minor) Close monitoring of blood pressure or the selection of alternative therapeutic agents may be needed in patients receiving aliskiren and lisdexamfetamine. Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents.
Lisinopril: (Major) Aliskiren-containing products are contraindicated in combination with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) in patients with diabetes mellitus. In general, avoid combined use of two renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) inhibitors, particularly in patients with CrCl less than 60 mL/minute. Combination therapy increases the risk for hyperkalemia, renal impairment, and other side effects. Most patients receiving a comination of two RAAS inhibitors, such as ACE inhibitors and aliskiren do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes if aliskiren must be combined with another RAAS inhibitor. In the ALTITUDE trial, patients with type 2 diabetes and renal impairment, a population at high risk for cardiovascular and renal events, were given aliskiren in addition to ACE inhibitors or ARBs. The trial was stopped early because aliskiren was associated with an increased risk of non-fatal stroke, renal complications, hyperkalemia, and hypotension. In the Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial, no additional benefit over monotherapy was seen in patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril compared to monotherapy; however, there was an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute renal injury.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Aliskiren-containing products are contraindicated in combination with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) in patients with diabetes mellitus. In general, avoid combined use of two renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) inhibitors, particularly in patients with CrCl less than 60 mL/minute. Combination therapy increases the risk for hyperkalemia, renal impairment, and other side effects. Most patients receiving a comination of two RAAS inhibitors, such as ACE inhibitors and aliskiren do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes if aliskiren must be combined with another RAAS inhibitor. In the ALTITUDE trial, patients with type 2 diabetes and renal impairment, a population at high risk for cardiovascular and renal events, were given aliskiren in addition to ACE inhibitors or ARBs. The trial was stopped early because aliskiren was associated with an increased risk of non-fatal stroke, renal complications, hyperkalemia, and hypotension. In the Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial, no additional benefit over monotherapy was seen in patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril compared to monotherapy; however, there was an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute renal injury.
Lithium: (Moderate) Use lithium and aliskiren together with caution and monitor serum lithium concentrations; adjust lithium dose to serum lithium concentration and clinical response. There is a theoretical potential that sodium loss due to aliskiren may reduce the renal clearance of lithium and increase serum lithium levels with risk of lithium toxicity.
Lomitapide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of lomitapide and aliskiren may result in increased serum concentrations of aliskiren. According to the manufacturer of lomitapide, dose reduction of aliskiren should be considered during concurrent use. Lomitapide is an inhibitor of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and aliskiren is a P-gp substrate.
Loop diuretics: (Moderate) Aliskiren can enhance the effects of loop-diuretics on blood pressure if given concomitantly. This additive effect may be desirable, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly. Patients with hyponatremia or hypovolemia may also develop reversible renal insufficiency. When aliskiren is administered in combination with furosemide, the AUC and Cmax of furosemide are reduced by approximately 30% and 50%, respectively; the pharmacokinetics of aliskiren are not affected. Patients should be monitored for loss of effect of furosemide when aliskiren is initiated. Blood pressure and electrolytes should be routinely monitored.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of aliskiren may be elevated when administered concurrently with ritonavir. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects, such as decreased blood pressure, is recommended during coadministration. Ritonavir is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Aliskiren is a substrate of both CYP3A4 and P-gp.
Losartan: (Major) Aliskiren-containing products are contraindicated in combination with angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs) in patients with diabetes mellitus. In general, avoid combined use of two renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) inhibitors, particularly in patients with CrCl less than 60 mL/minute. Combination therapy increases the risk for hyperkalemia, renal impairment, hypotension, and other side effects. Most patients receiving a comination of two RAAS inhibitors, such as ARBs and aliskiren, do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes if aliskiren must be combined with another RAAS inhibitor. In the ALTITUDE trial, patients with type 2 diabetes and renal impairment, a population at high risk for cardiovascular and renal events, were given aliskiren in addition to ACE inhibitors or ARBs. The trial was stopped early because aliskiren was associated with an increased risk of non-fatal stroke, renal complications, hyperkalemia, and hypotension. In the Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial, no additional benefit over monotherapy was seen in patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril compared to monotherapy; however, there was an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute renal injury.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Aliskiren-containing products are contraindicated in combination with angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs) in patients with diabetes mellitus. In general, avoid combined use of two renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) inhibitors, particularly in patients with CrCl less than 60 mL/minute. Combination therapy increases the risk for hyperkalemia, renal impairment, hypotension, and other side effects. Most patients receiving a comination of two RAAS inhibitors, such as ARBs and aliskiren, do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes if aliskiren must be combined with another RAAS inhibitor. In the ALTITUDE trial, patients with type 2 diabetes and renal impairment, a population at high risk for cardiovascular and renal events, were given aliskiren in addition to ACE inhibitors or ARBs. The trial was stopped early because aliskiren was associated with an increased risk of non-fatal stroke, renal complications, hyperkalemia, and hypotension. In the Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial, no additional benefit over monotherapy was seen in patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril compared to monotherapy; however, there was an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute renal injury.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Lumacaftor; ivacaftor may alter the systemic exposure of aliskiren. If used together, monitor blood pressure closely and adjust the aliskiren dosage as appropriate. Aliskiren is a substrate of CYP3A4 and the P-glycoprotein (P-gp) drug transporter. Lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer; in vitro data suggests lumacaftor; ivacaftor may also induce and/or inhibit P-gp. While the induction of aliskiren through the CYP3A pathway may lead to decreased drug efficacy, the net effect of lumacaftor; ivacaftor on P-gp transport is not clear.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Lumacaftor; ivacaftor may alter the systemic exposure of aliskiren. If used together, monitor blood pressure closely and adjust the aliskiren dosage as appropriate. Aliskiren is a substrate of CYP3A4 and the P-glycoprotein (P-gp) drug transporter. Lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer; in vitro data suggests lumacaftor; ivacaftor may also induce and/or inhibit P-gp. While the induction of aliskiren through the CYP3A pathway may lead to decreased drug efficacy, the net effect of lumacaftor; ivacaftor on P-gp transport is not clear.
Lurasidone: (Moderate) Due to the antagonism of lurasidone at alpha-1 adrenergic receptors, the drug may enhance the hypotensive effects of alpha-blockers and other antihypertensive agents. If concurrent use of lurasidone and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Meclofenamate Sodium: (Moderate) NSAIDs may attenuate the antihypertensive effects of aliskiren by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function who are being treated with NSAIDs, the coadministration of aliskiren may result in a further deterioration of renal function, including acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Therefore, blood pressure and renal function should be monitored closely when an NSAID is administered to a patient taking aliskiren.
Mefenamic Acid: (Moderate) NSAIDs may attenuate the antihypertensive effects of aliskiren by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function who are being treated with NSAIDs, the coadministration of aliskiren may result in a further deterioration of renal function, including acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Therefore, blood pressure and renal function should be monitored closely when an NSAID is administered to a patient taking aliskiren.
Meloxicam: (Moderate) NSAIDs may attenuate the antihypertensive effects of aliskiren by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function who are being treated with NSAIDs, the coadministration of aliskiren may result in a further deterioration of renal function, including acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Therefore, blood pressure and renal function should be monitored closely when an NSAID is administered to a patient taking aliskiren.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Moderate) NSAIDs may attenuate the antihypertensive effects of aliskiren by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function who are being treated with NSAIDs, the coadministration of aliskiren may result in a further deterioration of renal function, including acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Therefore, blood pressure and renal function should be monitored closely when an NSAID is administered to a patient taking aliskiren.
Mepivacaine: (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents. Thus, patients receiving antihypertensive agents may experience additive hypotensive effects.
Methylphenidate Derivatives: (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents, including aliskiren. Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidates and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives.
Methylphenidate: (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents, including aliskiren. Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidates and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives.
Minoxidil: (Moderate) Aliskiren can enhance the effects of vasodilators on blood pressure if given concomitantly. This additive effect may be desirable, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly. Blood pressure and electrolytes should be routinely monitored in patients receiving aliskiren.
Mitotane: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and aliskiren are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of aliskiren and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and aliskiren is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of aliskiren.
Moexipril: (Major) Aliskiren-containing products are contraindicated in combination with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) in patients with diabetes mellitus. In general, avoid combined use of two renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) inhibitors, particularly in patients with CrCl less than 60 mL/minute. Combination therapy increases the risk for hyperkalemia, renal impairment, and other side effects. Most patients receiving a comination of two RAAS inhibitors, such as ACE inhibitors and aliskiren do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes if aliskiren must be combined with another RAAS inhibitor. In the ALTITUDE trial, patients with type 2 diabetes and renal impairment, a population at high risk for cardiovascular and renal events, were given aliskiren in addition to ACE inhibitors or ARBs. The trial was stopped early because aliskiren was associated with an increased risk of non-fatal stroke, renal complications, hyperkalemia, and hypotension. In the Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial, no additional benefit over monotherapy was seen in patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril compared to monotherapy; however, there was an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute renal injury.
Nabumetone: (Moderate) NSAIDs may attenuate the antihypertensive effects of aliskiren by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function who are being treated with NSAIDs, the coadministration of aliskiren may result in a further deterioration of renal function, including acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Therefore, blood pressure and renal function should be monitored closely when an NSAID is administered to a patient taking aliskiren.
Naproxen: (Moderate) NSAIDs may attenuate the antihypertensive effects of aliskiren by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function who are being treated with NSAIDs, the coadministration of aliskiren may result in a further deterioration of renal function, including acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Therefore, blood pressure and renal function should be monitored closely when an NSAID is administered to a patient taking aliskiren.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Moderate) NSAIDs may attenuate the antihypertensive effects of aliskiren by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function who are being treated with NSAIDs, the coadministration of aliskiren may result in a further deterioration of renal function, including acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Therefore, blood pressure and renal function should be monitored closely when an NSAID is administered to a patient taking aliskiren.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) NSAIDs may attenuate the antihypertensive effects of aliskiren by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function who are being treated with NSAIDs, the coadministration of aliskiren may result in a further deterioration of renal function, including acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Therefore, blood pressure and renal function should be monitored closely when an NSAID is administered to a patient taking aliskiren.
Nefazodone: (Minor) Although relatively infrequent, nefazodone may cause orthostatic hypotension in some patients; this effect may be additive with antihypertensive agents. Blood pressure monitoring and dosage adjustments of either drug may be necessary.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Consider temporary discontinuation of aliskiren during treatment with ritonavir-boosted nirmatrelvir and for at least 2 to 3 days after treatment completion; if not feasible, consider alternative COVID-19 therapy. Coadministration may increase aliskiren exposure resulting in increased toxicity. Aliskiren is a substrate of both CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp), and nirmatrelvir is a CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of aliskiren may be elevated when administered concurrently with ritonavir. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects, such as decreased blood pressure, is recommended during coadministration. Ritonavir is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Aliskiren is a substrate of both CYP3A4 and P-gp.
Nitroprusside: (Moderate) Aliskiren can enhance the effects of vasodilators on blood pressure if given concomitantly. This additive effect may be desirable, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly. Blood pressure and electrolytes should be routinely monitored in patients receiving aliskiren.
Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs: (Moderate) NSAIDs may attenuate the antihypertensive effects of aliskiren by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function who are being treated with NSAIDs, the coadministration of aliskiren may result in a further deterioration of renal function, including acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Therefore, blood pressure and renal function should be monitored closely when an NSAID is administered to a patient taking aliskiren.
Olmesartan: (Major) Aliskiren-containing products are contraindicated in combination with angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs) in patients with diabetes mellitus. In general, avoid combined use of two renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) inhibitors, particularly in patients with CrCl less than 60 mL/minute. Combination therapy increases the risk for hyperkalemia, renal impairment, hypotension, and other side effects. Most patients receiving a comination of two RAAS inhibitors, such as ARBs and aliskiren, do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes if aliskiren must be combined with another RAAS inhibitor. In the ALTITUDE trial, patients with type 2 diabetes and renal impairment, a population at high risk for cardiovascular and renal events, were given aliskiren in addition to ACE inhibitors or ARBs. The trial was stopped early because aliskiren was associated with an increased risk of non-fatal stroke, renal complications, hyperkalemia, and hypotension. In the Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial, no additional benefit over monotherapy was seen in patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril compared to monotherapy; however, there was an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute renal injury.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Aliskiren-containing products are contraindicated in combination with angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs) in patients with diabetes mellitus. In general, avoid combined use of two renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) inhibitors, particularly in patients with CrCl less than 60 mL/minute. Combination therapy increases the risk for hyperkalemia, renal impairment, hypotension, and other side effects. Most patients receiving a comination of two RAAS inhibitors, such as ARBs and aliskiren, do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes if aliskiren must be combined with another RAAS inhibitor. In the ALTITUDE trial, patients with type 2 diabetes and renal impairment, a population at high risk for cardiovascular and renal events, were given aliskiren in addition to ACE inhibitors or ARBs. The trial was stopped early because aliskiren was associated with an increased risk of non-fatal stroke, renal complications, hyperkalemia, and hypotension. In the Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial, no additional benefit over monotherapy was seen in patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril compared to monotherapy; however, there was an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute renal injury.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Aliskiren-containing products are contraindicated in combination with angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs) in patients with diabetes mellitus. In general, avoid combined use of two renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) inhibitors, particularly in patients with CrCl less than 60 mL/minute. Combination therapy increases the risk for hyperkalemia, renal impairment, hypotension, and other side effects. Most patients receiving a comination of two RAAS inhibitors, such as ARBs and aliskiren, do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes if aliskiren must be combined with another RAAS inhibitor. In the ALTITUDE trial, patients with type 2 diabetes and renal impairment, a population at high risk for cardiovascular and renal events, were given aliskiren in addition to ACE inhibitors or ARBs. The trial was stopped early because aliskiren was associated with an increased risk of non-fatal stroke, renal complications, hyperkalemia, and hypotension. In the Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial, no additional benefit over monotherapy was seen in patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril compared to monotherapy; however, there was an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute renal injury.
Oxaprozin: (Moderate) NSAIDs may attenuate the antihypertensive effects of aliskiren by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function who are being treated with NSAIDs, the coadministration of aliskiren may result in a further deterioration of renal function, including acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Therefore, blood pressure and renal function should be monitored closely when an NSAID is administered to a patient taking aliskiren.
PAZOPanib: (Moderate) Pazopanib is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration of pazopanib and aliskiren, a CYP3A4 substrate, may cause an increase in systemic concentrations of aliskiren. Use caution when administering these drugs concomitantly.
Pentoxifylline: (Moderate) Pentoxifylline has been used concurrently with antihypertensive drugs (beta blockers, diuretics) without observed problems. Small decreases in blood pressure have been observed in some patients treated with pentoxifylline; periodic systemic blood pressure monitoring is recommended for patients receiving concomitant antihypertensives. If indicated, dosage of the antihypertensive agents should be reduced.
Perindopril: (Major) Aliskiren-containing products are contraindicated in combination with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) in patients with diabetes mellitus. In general, avoid combined use of two renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) inhibitors, particularly in patients with CrCl less than 60 mL/minute. Combination therapy increases the risk for hyperkalemia, renal impairment, and other side effects. Most patients receiving a comination of two RAAS inhibitors, such as ACE inhibitors and aliskiren do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes if aliskiren must be combined with another RAAS inhibitor. In the ALTITUDE trial, patients with type 2 diabetes and renal impairment, a population at high risk for cardiovascular and renal events, were given aliskiren in addition to ACE inhibitors or ARBs. The trial was stopped early because aliskiren was associated with an increased risk of non-fatal stroke, renal complications, hyperkalemia, and hypotension. In the Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial, no additional benefit over monotherapy was seen in patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril compared to monotherapy; however, there was an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute renal injury.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Major) Aliskiren-containing products are contraindicated in combination with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) in patients with diabetes mellitus. In general, avoid combined use of two renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) inhibitors, particularly in patients with CrCl less than 60 mL/minute. Combination therapy increases the risk for hyperkalemia, renal impairment, and other side effects. Most patients receiving a comination of two RAAS inhibitors, such as ACE inhibitors and aliskiren do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes if aliskiren must be combined with another RAAS inhibitor. In the ALTITUDE trial, patients with type 2 diabetes and renal impairment, a population at high risk for cardiovascular and renal events, were given aliskiren in addition to ACE inhibitors or ARBs. The trial was stopped early because aliskiren was associated with an increased risk of non-fatal stroke, renal complications, hyperkalemia, and hypotension. In the Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial, no additional benefit over monotherapy was seen in patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril compared to monotherapy; however, there was an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute renal injury.
Piroxicam: (Moderate) NSAIDs may attenuate the antihypertensive effects of aliskiren by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function who are being treated with NSAIDs, the coadministration of aliskiren may result in a further deterioration of renal function, including acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Therefore, blood pressure and renal function should be monitored closely when an NSAID is administered to a patient taking aliskiren.
Posaconazole: (Moderate) Posaconazole and aliskiren should be coadministered with caution due to an increased potential for aliskiren-related adverse events. Posaconazole is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4, an isoenzyme responsible for the metabolism of aliskiren. These drugs used in combination may result in elevated aliskiren plasma concentrations, causing an increased risk for aliskiren-related adverse events.
Potassium Acetate: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and aliskiren are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Potassium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and aliskiren are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Potassium Chloride: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and aliskiren are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Potassium Citrate: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and aliskiren are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Potassium Citrate; Citric Acid: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and aliskiren are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Potassium Gluconate: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and aliskiren are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Potassium Iodide, KI: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and aliskiren are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Potassium: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and aliskiren are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Potassium-sparing diuretics: (Moderate) Due to the risk of hyperkalemia, drugs that increase serum potassium concentration, such as potassium-sparing diuretics, should be used cautiously in patients taking aliskiren. Electrolytes should be routinely monitored in patients receiving aliskiren. Aliskiren can enhance the effects of diuretics on blood pressure if given concomitantly. This additive effect may be desirable, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly. Also, patients with hyponatremia or hypovolemia may become hypotensive and/or develop reversible renal insufficiency when given aliskiren and diuretics.
Prazosin: (Moderate) Prazosin is well-known to produce a 'first-dose' phenomenon. Some patients develop significant hypotension shortly after administration of the first dose. The first dose response (acute postural hypotension) of prazosin may be exaggerated in patients who are receiving beta-adrenergic blockers, diuretics, or other antihypertensive agents. Concomitant administration of prazosin with other antihypertensive agents is not prohibited, however. This can be therapeutically advantageous, but lower dosages of each agent should be used.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including aliskiren, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
Propofol: (Moderate) General anesthtics may be associated with hypotension; however the frequency is less than with inhalational anesthetic agents. Concomitant use with aliskiren may increase the risk of developing hypotension.
Quinapril: (Major) Aliskiren-containing products are contraindicated in combination with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) in patients with diabetes mellitus. In general, avoid combined use of two renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) inhibitors, particularly in patients with CrCl less than 60 mL/minute. Combination therapy increases the risk for hyperkalemia, renal impairment, and other side effects. Most patients receiving a comination of two RAAS inhibitors, such as ACE inhibitors and aliskiren do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes if aliskiren must be combined with another RAAS inhibitor. In the ALTITUDE trial, patients with type 2 diabetes and renal impairment, a population at high risk for cardiovascular and renal events, were given aliskiren in addition to ACE inhibitors or ARBs. The trial was stopped early because aliskiren was associated with an increased risk of non-fatal stroke, renal complications, hyperkalemia, and hypotension. In the Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial, no additional benefit over monotherapy was seen in patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril compared to monotherapy; however, there was an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute renal injury.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Aliskiren-containing products are contraindicated in combination with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) in patients with diabetes mellitus. In general, avoid combined use of two renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) inhibitors, particularly in patients with CrCl less than 60 mL/minute. Combination therapy increases the risk for hyperkalemia, renal impairment, and other side effects. Most patients receiving a comination of two RAAS inhibitors, such as ACE inhibitors and aliskiren do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes if aliskiren must be combined with another RAAS inhibitor. In the ALTITUDE trial, patients with type 2 diabetes and renal impairment, a population at high risk for cardiovascular and renal events, were given aliskiren in addition to ACE inhibitors or ARBs. The trial was stopped early because aliskiren was associated with an increased risk of non-fatal stroke, renal complications, hyperkalemia, and hypotension. In the Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial, no additional benefit over monotherapy was seen in patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril compared to monotherapy; however, there was an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute renal injury.
Ramipril: (Major) Aliskiren-containing products are contraindicated in combination with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) in patients with diabetes mellitus. In general, avoid combined use of two renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) inhibitors, particularly in patients with CrCl less than 60 mL/minute. Combination therapy increases the risk for hyperkalemia, renal impairment, and other side effects. Most patients receiving a comination of two RAAS inhibitors, such as ACE inhibitors and aliskiren do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes if aliskiren must be combined with another RAAS inhibitor. In the ALTITUDE trial, patients with type 2 diabetes and renal impairment, a population at high risk for cardiovascular and renal events, were given aliskiren in addition to ACE inhibitors or ARBs. The trial was stopped early because aliskiren was associated with an increased risk of non-fatal stroke, renal complications, hyperkalemia, and hypotension. In the Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial, no additional benefit over monotherapy was seen in patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril compared to monotherapy; however, there was an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute renal injury.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension has been reported during administration of rasagiline. Therefore, caution is advised during concurrent use with antihypertensive agents. Rasagiline is a selective MAO-B inhibitor at manufacturer recommended doses; therefore, serious hypertensive reactions with agents affecting catecholamine release (e.g., guanabenz, reserpine, guanethidine) are unlikely. Nevertheless, patients receiving rasagiline in combination with an antihypertensive should be instructed to rise slowly from a sitting position, and to report syncope, and changes in heart rate or blood pressure to their health care provider.
Ritonavir: (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of aliskiren may be elevated when administered concurrently with ritonavir. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects, such as decreased blood pressure, is recommended during coadministration. Ritonavir is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Aliskiren is a substrate of both CYP3A4 and P-gp.
Sacubitril; Valsartan: (Major) Aliskiren-containing products are contraindicated in combination with angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs) in patients with diabetes mellitus. In general, avoid combined use of two renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) inhibitors, particularly in patients with CrCl less than 60 mL/minute. Combination therapy increases the risk for hyperkalemia, renal impairment, hypotension, and other side effects. Most patients receiving a comination of two RAAS inhibitors, such as ARBs and aliskiren, do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes if aliskiren must be combined with another RAAS inhibitor. In the ALTITUDE trial, patients with type 2 diabetes and renal impairment, a population at high risk for cardiovascular and renal events, were given aliskiren in addition to ACE inhibitors or ARBs. The trial was stopped early because aliskiren was associated with an increased risk of non-fatal stroke, renal complications, hyperkalemia, and hypotension. In the Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial, no additional benefit over monotherapy was seen in patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril compared to monotherapy; however, there was an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute renal injury.
Serdexmethylphenidate; Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents, including aliskiren. Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidates and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives.
Sevoflurane: (Moderate) General anesthtics may be associated with hypotension; however the frequency is less than with inhalational anesthetic agents. Concomitant use with aliskiren may increase the risk of developing hypotension.
Sildenafil: (Moderate) Aliskiren can enhance the effects of sildenafil on blood pressure if given concomitantly. This additive effect may be desirable, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly. Blood pressure and electrolytes should be routinely monitored in patients receiving aliskiren.
Silodosin: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Sodium Nitrite; Sodium Thiosulfate: (Moderate) Sodium nitrite causes vasodilation resulting in hypotension. Antihypertensive agents and other hypotension-producing agents such as vasodilators and tricyclic antidepressants can cause additive hypotensive or orthostatic effects.
Sodium Sulfate; Magnesium Sulfate; Potassium Chloride: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and aliskiren are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir; Voxilaprevir: (Moderate) Plasma concentrations of aliskiren, a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate, may be increased when administered concurrently with voxilaprevir, a P-gp inhibitor. Monitor patients for increased side effects if these drugs are administered concurrently.
Sparsentan: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of sparsentan and aliskiren is contraindicated due to the additive risk for serious adverse effects such as hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and renal dysfunction.
Spironolactone: (Moderate) Due to the risk of hyperkalemia, drugs that increase serum potassium concentration, such as potassium-sparing diuretics, should be used cautiously in patients taking aliskiren. Electrolytes should be routinely monitored in patients receiving aliskiren. Aliskiren can enhance the effects of diuretics on blood pressure if given concomitantly. This additive effect may be desirable, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly. Also, patients with hyponatremia or hypovolemia may become hypotensive and/or develop reversible renal insufficiency when given aliskiren and diuretics.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Due to the risk of hyperkalemia, drugs that increase serum potassium concentration, such as potassium-sparing diuretics, should be used cautiously in patients taking aliskiren. Electrolytes should be routinely monitored in patients receiving aliskiren. Aliskiren can enhance the effects of diuretics on blood pressure if given concomitantly. This additive effect may be desirable, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly. Also, patients with hyponatremia or hypovolemia may become hypotensive and/or develop reversible renal insufficiency when given aliskiren and diuretics.
Sulindac: (Moderate) NSAIDs may attenuate the antihypertensive effects of aliskiren by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function who are being treated with NSAIDs, the coadministration of aliskiren may result in a further deterioration of renal function, including acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Therefore, blood pressure and renal function should be monitored closely when an NSAID is administered to a patient taking aliskiren.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Moderate) NSAIDs may attenuate the antihypertensive effects of aliskiren by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function who are being treated with NSAIDs, the coadministration of aliskiren may result in a further deterioration of renal function, including acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Therefore, blood pressure and renal function should be monitored closely when an NSAID is administered to a patient taking aliskiren.
Telmisartan: (Major) Aliskiren-containing products are contraindicated in combination with angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs) in patients with diabetes mellitus. In general, avoid combined use of two renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) inhibitors, particularly in patients with CrCl less than 60 mL/minute. Combination therapy increases the risk for hyperkalemia, renal impairment, hypotension, and other side effects. Most patients receiving a comination of two RAAS inhibitors, such as ARBs and aliskiren, do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes if aliskiren must be combined with another RAAS inhibitor. In the ALTITUDE trial, patients with type 2 diabetes and renal impairment, a population at high risk for cardiovascular and renal events, were given aliskiren in addition to ACE inhibitors or ARBs. The trial was stopped early because aliskiren was associated with an increased risk of non-fatal stroke, renal complications, hyperkalemia, and hypotension. In the Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial, no additional benefit over monotherapy was seen in patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril compared to monotherapy; however, there was an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute renal injury.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Major) Aliskiren-containing products are contraindicated in combination with angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs) in patients with diabetes mellitus. In general, avoid combined use of two renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) inhibitors, particularly in patients with CrCl less than 60 mL/minute. Combination therapy increases the risk for hyperkalemia, renal impairment, hypotension, and other side effects. Most patients receiving a comination of two RAAS inhibitors, such as ARBs and aliskiren, do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes if aliskiren must be combined with another RAAS inhibitor. In the ALTITUDE trial, patients with type 2 diabetes and renal impairment, a population at high risk for cardiovascular and renal events, were given aliskiren in addition to ACE inhibitors or ARBs. The trial was stopped early because aliskiren was associated with an increased risk of non-fatal stroke, renal complications, hyperkalemia, and hypotension. In the Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial, no additional benefit over monotherapy was seen in patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril compared to monotherapy; however, there was an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute renal injury.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Major) Aliskiren-containing products are contraindicated in combination with angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs) in patients with diabetes mellitus. In general, avoid combined use of two renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) inhibitors, particularly in patients with CrCl less than 60 mL/minute. Combination therapy increases the risk for hyperkalemia, renal impairment, hypotension, and other side effects. Most patients receiving a comination of two RAAS inhibitors, such as ARBs and aliskiren, do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes if aliskiren must be combined with another RAAS inhibitor. In the ALTITUDE trial, patients with type 2 diabetes and renal impairment, a population at high risk for cardiovascular and renal events, were given aliskiren in addition to ACE inhibitors or ARBs. The trial was stopped early because aliskiren was associated with an increased risk of non-fatal stroke, renal complications, hyperkalemia, and hypotension. In the Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial, no additional benefit over monotherapy was seen in patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril compared to monotherapy; however, there was an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute renal injury. (Moderate) Aliskiren can enhance the effects of indapamide on blood pressure if given concomitantly. This additive effect may be desirable, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly. Of note, patients with hyponatremia or hypovolemia may also develop reversible renal insufficiency when given aliskiren and diuretics concomitantly. Blood pressure and electrolytes should be routinely monitored in patients receiving aliskiren.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Aliskiren-containing products are contraindicated in combination with angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs) in patients with diabetes mellitus. In general, avoid combined use of two renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) inhibitors, particularly in patients with CrCl less than 60 mL/minute. Combination therapy increases the risk for hyperkalemia, renal impairment, hypotension, and other side effects. Most patients receiving a comination of two RAAS inhibitors, such as ARBs and aliskiren, do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes if aliskiren must be combined with another RAAS inhibitor. In the ALTITUDE trial, patients with type 2 diabetes and renal impairment, a population at high risk for cardiovascular and renal events, were given aliskiren in addition to ACE inhibitors or ARBs. The trial was stopped early because aliskiren was associated with an increased risk of non-fatal stroke, renal complications, hyperkalemia, and hypotension. In the Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial, no additional benefit over monotherapy was seen in patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril compared to monotherapy; however, there was an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute renal injury.
Thiothixene: (Moderate) Thiothixene should be used cautiously in patients receiving antihypertensive agents. Additive hypotensive effects are possible.
tiZANidine: (Moderate) Aliskiren can enhance the effects of tizanidine on blood pressure if given concomitantly. This additive effect may be desirable, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly. Blood pressure and electrolytes should be routinely monitored in patients receiving aliskiren.
Tolmetin: (Moderate) NSAIDs may attenuate the antihypertensive effects of aliskiren by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function who are being treated with NSAIDs, the coadministration of aliskiren may result in a further deterioration of renal function, including acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Therefore, blood pressure and renal function should be monitored closely when an NSAID is administered to a patient taking aliskiren.
Torsemide: (Moderate) Aliskiren can enhance the effects of loop-diuretics on blood pressure if given concomitantly. This additive effect may be desirable, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly. Patients with hyponatremia or hypovolemia may also develop reversible renal insufficiency. When aliskiren is administered in combination with furosemide, the AUC and Cmax of furosemide are reduced by approximately 30% and 50%, respectively; the pharmacokinetics of aliskiren are not affected. Patients should be monitored for loss of effect of furosemide when aliskiren is initiated. Blood pressure and electrolytes should be routinely monitored.
Trandolapril: (Major) Aliskiren-containing products are contraindicated in combination with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) in patients with diabetes mellitus. In general, avoid combined use of two renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) inhibitors, particularly in patients with CrCl less than 60 mL/minute. Combination therapy increases the risk for hyperkalemia, renal impairment, and other side effects. Most patients receiving a comination of two RAAS inhibitors, such as ACE inhibitors and aliskiren do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes if aliskiren must be combined with another RAAS inhibitor. In the ALTITUDE trial, patients with type 2 diabetes and renal impairment, a population at high risk for cardiovascular and renal events, were given aliskiren in addition to ACE inhibitors or ARBs. The trial was stopped early because aliskiren was associated with an increased risk of non-fatal stroke, renal complications, hyperkalemia, and hypotension. In the Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial, no additional benefit over monotherapy was seen in patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril compared to monotherapy; however, there was an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute renal injury.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Major) Aliskiren-containing products are contraindicated in combination with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) in patients with diabetes mellitus. In general, avoid combined use of two renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) inhibitors, particularly in patients with CrCl less than 60 mL/minute. Combination therapy increases the risk for hyperkalemia, renal impairment, and other side effects. Most patients receiving a comination of two RAAS inhibitors, such as ACE inhibitors and aliskiren do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes if aliskiren must be combined with another RAAS inhibitor. In the ALTITUDE trial, patients with type 2 diabetes and renal impairment, a population at high risk for cardiovascular and renal events, were given aliskiren in addition to ACE inhibitors or ARBs. The trial was stopped early because aliskiren was associated with an increased risk of non-fatal stroke, renal complications, hyperkalemia, and hypotension. In the Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial, no additional benefit over monotherapy was seen in patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril compared to monotherapy; however, there was an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute renal injury. (Moderate) Administration of 240 mg verapamil with 300 mg aliskiren resulted in an approximately 2-fold increase in AUC and Cmax of aliskiren; however, no dosage adjustment is necessary. Blood pressure should be closely monitored in patients taking both of these medications.
Tranylcypromine: (Contraindicated) The use of hypotensive agents and tranylcypromine is contraindicated by the manufacturer of tranylcypromine because the effects of hypotensive agents may be markedly potentiated.
Triamterene: (Moderate) Due to the risk of hyperkalemia, drugs that increase serum potassium concentration, such as potassium-sparing diuretics, should be used cautiously in patients taking aliskiren. Electrolytes should be routinely monitored in patients receiving aliskiren. Aliskiren can enhance the effects of diuretics on blood pressure if given concomitantly. This additive effect may be desirable, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly. Also, patients with hyponatremia or hypovolemia may become hypotensive and/or develop reversible renal insufficiency when given aliskiren and diuretics.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Due to the risk of hyperkalemia, drugs that increase serum potassium concentration, such as potassium-sparing diuretics, should be used cautiously in patients taking aliskiren. Electrolytes should be routinely monitored in patients receiving aliskiren. Aliskiren can enhance the effects of diuretics on blood pressure if given concomitantly. This additive effect may be desirable, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly. Also, patients with hyponatremia or hypovolemia may become hypotensive and/or develop reversible renal insufficiency when given aliskiren and diuretics.
Tucatinib: (Moderate) Coadministration of aliskiren and tucatinib may increase the exposure of aliskiren. Monitor for adverse effects, such as decreased blood pressure, during coadministration. Aliskiren is a substrate of CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp); tucatinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and P-gp inhibitor.
Valsartan: (Major) Aliskiren-containing products are contraindicated in combination with angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs) in patients with diabetes mellitus. In general, avoid combined use of two renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) inhibitors, particularly in patients with CrCl less than 60 mL/minute. Combination therapy increases the risk for hyperkalemia, renal impairment, hypotension, and other side effects. Most patients receiving a comination of two RAAS inhibitors, such as ARBs and aliskiren, do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes if aliskiren must be combined with another RAAS inhibitor. In the ALTITUDE trial, patients with type 2 diabetes and renal impairment, a population at high risk for cardiovascular and renal events, were given aliskiren in addition to ACE inhibitors or ARBs. The trial was stopped early because aliskiren was associated with an increased risk of non-fatal stroke, renal complications, hyperkalemia, and hypotension. In the Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial, no additional benefit over monotherapy was seen in patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril compared to monotherapy; however, there was an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute renal injury.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Aliskiren-containing products are contraindicated in combination with angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs) in patients with diabetes mellitus. In general, avoid combined use of two renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) inhibitors, particularly in patients with CrCl less than 60 mL/minute. Combination therapy increases the risk for hyperkalemia, renal impairment, hypotension, and other side effects. Most patients receiving a comination of two RAAS inhibitors, such as ARBs and aliskiren, do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes if aliskiren must be combined with another RAAS inhibitor. In the ALTITUDE trial, patients with type 2 diabetes and renal impairment, a population at high risk for cardiovascular and renal events, were given aliskiren in addition to ACE inhibitors or ARBs. The trial was stopped early because aliskiren was associated with an increased risk of non-fatal stroke, renal complications, hyperkalemia, and hypotension. In the Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial, no additional benefit over monotherapy was seen in patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril compared to monotherapy; however, there was an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute renal injury.
Vasodilators: (Moderate) Aliskiren can enhance the effects of vasodilators on blood pressure if given concomitantly. This additive effect may be desirable, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly. Blood pressure and electrolytes should be routinely monitored in patients receiving aliskiren.
Verapamil: (Moderate) Administration of 240 mg verapamil with 300 mg aliskiren resulted in an approximately 2-fold increase in AUC and Cmax of aliskiren; however, no dosage adjustment is necessary. Blood pressure should be closely monitored in patients taking both of these medications.
Warfarin: (Minor) Coadministration of warfarin with aliskrien decreases the absorption (Cmax) of warfarin by up to 12%. During clinical evaluation, coadministration did not reveal any significant effect on blood coagulation parameters in tested blood samples. Nevertheless, blood coagulation markers should be closely monitored in patients taking both of these medications.
Zonisamide: (Minor) Zonisamide is a weak inhibitor of P-glycoprotein (P-gp), and aliskiren is a substrate of P-gp. There is theoretical potential for zonisamide to affect the pharmacokinetics of drugs that are P-gp substrates. Use caution when starting or stopping zonisamide or changing the zonisamide dosage in patients also receiving drugs which are P-gp substrates.


Adverse Reaction
General Information

During clinical evaluation, the safety of aliskiren was studied in over 6460 patients, with more than 1740 treated for longer than 6 months, and more than 1250 treated out to one year. Discontinuations due to adverse events or uncontrolled hypertension were low in controlled trials, including 2.2% of patients treated with aliskiren vs. 3.5% of patients treated with placebo. Adverse events in published clinical trails were similar to those that occurred with placebo at doses up to 300 mg daily. Doses above 300 mg did not improve blood pressure response but were associated with increased rates of GI adverse events. Aliskiren is considered safe and well tolerated up to 300 mg/day. In an 8 week, controlled clinical trial, aliskiren was well tolerated with an adverse event rate similar to placebo at doses up to 600 mg. Adverse reaction rates for aliskiren 150 mg, 300 mg, and 600 mg were 26.8%, 36.2%, and 33.1%, respectively, compared with 32.1% with placebo. The comparator drug, irbesartan 150 mg, had an adverse event rate of 36.6%.
 
Elevations in creatine kinase > 300% were reported in about 1% of aliskiren-treated patients vs. 0.5% of placebo patients. Five cases of creatine kinase rises, 3 leading to discontinuation, and 1 diagnosed as subclinical rhabdomyolysis, and another as myositis, were reported as adverse events with aliskiren use in the clinical trials. No cases were associated with renal dysfunction.

dizziness, fatigue, headache


Headache, dizziness, and fatigue occurred in placebo-controlled clinical trials at an incidence of more than 1% of patients treated with aliskiren, but also occurred at about the same or greater incidence in patients receiving placebo.


angioedema


Angioedema of the face, extremities, lips, tongue, glottis, and larynx has been reported in patients taking aliskiren. In clinical trials, 4 cases (0.06%) of angioedema were reported. Two of the cases were reported as angioedema with respiratory symptoms and 2 other cases of periorbital edema without respiratory symptoms were reported as possible angioedema and resulted in discontinuation. In addition, 26 other cases of edema involving the face, hands, or whole body were reported with aliskiren use including 4 leading to discontinuation. In the placebo controlled studies, however, the incidence of edema involved the face, hands or whole body was 0.4% with aliskiren compared with 0.5% with placebo. In a long-term active control study with aliskiren and hydrochlorothiazide arms, the incidence of edema involving the face, hand or whole body was 0.4% in both treatment arms. During post-marketing experience, angioedema requiring airway management and hospitalization has occurred. Angioedema can occur at any time after treatment initiation, and has occurred in patients with and without a history of angioedema with ACE inhibitors or angiotensin receptor antagonists. If angioedema involves the throat, tongue, glottis or larynx, or if the patient has a history of upper respiratory surgery, airway obstruction may occur and be fatal. Patients who experience these effects, even without respiratory distress, require prolonged observation since treatment with antihistamines and corticosteroids may not be sufficient to prevent respiratory involvement. Prompt administration of subcutaneous epinephrine solution 1:1000 (0.3 to 0.5 mL) and measures to ensure a patent airway may be necessary. In patients who develop angioedema, immediately discontinue aliskiren and do not readminister.


cough, infection, pharyngitis


Compared with ACE inhibitors, renin inhibitors have the potential to cause fewer side effects since they do not affect metabolism of bradykinin. ACE inhibition can result in the accumulation of kinins in the respiratory tract, often causing a persistent, nonproductive cough. During clinical trials, the incidence of cough was 1.1% in patients taking aliskiren vs. 0.6% in patients taking placebo. When compared to ACE inhibitors, the incidence of cough in patients taking aliskiren was approximately one-half to one-third the incidence of cough in patients taking ACE inhibitors. Naso-pharyngitis and upper respiratory tract infection occurred in > 1% of patients treated with aliskiren in clinical trials, but also occurred at about the same or greater incidence in patients receiving placebo.


diarrhea


Diarrhea was reported among the most common adverse events in 2.3% of patients receiving aliskiren 300 mg/day compared to only 1.2% of patients receiving placebo. In women or elderly patients > 65 years of age, an increase in the incidence of diarrhea was evident at a lower dose of 150 mg/day compared to a higher dose of 300 mg/day in younger men. Other reported GI adverse events include abdominal pain, dyspepsia, and gastroesophageal reflux, but were more likely to occur at doses approaching 600 mg daily.


hyperkalemia


Electrolytes should be routinely monitored in patients receiving aliskiren. Drugs that affect the renin-angiotensin system can cause hyperkalemia. Risk factors for the development of hyperkalemia include renal insufficiency, diabetes, combination use with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors), angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs), NSAIDs, or potassium-sparing diuretics, potassium supplements, and/or potassium-containing salt substitutes. When used as monotherapy, the incidence of hyperkalemia (i.e., serum potassium > 5.5 mEq/L) was 0.9% in patients receiving aliskiren vs. 0.6% of patients receiving placebo. However, when aliskiren was used in combination with an ACE inhibitor or an ARB in patients with diabetes and renal disease, the incidence of hyperkalemia was 36.9% compared to 27.1% in the placebo group. Hyperkalemia resulting in a serious adverse event occurred at an incidence of 1.1% in the aliskiren group compared to 0.3% in the placebo group.


hypotension


During clinical trials, hypotension has been rarely reported with an incidence of 0.1% in patients receiving monotherapy and an incidence of < 1% in patients taking aliskiren in combination with other antihypertensives. Symptomatic hypotension may occur after initiation of treatment in patients who are volume-depleted or salt-depleted (e.g., receiving diuretics) or with combined use of aliskiren and other agents acting on the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system. If hypotension occurs, the patient should be placed in a supine position and administered IV normal saline when indicated. Hypotension does not contraindicate further treatment with aliskiren; it can usually be reinitiated without sequelae once the blood pressure has stabilized.


peripheral edema


Peripheral edema has been reported during post-marketing experience with aliskiren.


gout, hyperuricemia, nephrolithiasis



Hyperuricemia (0.4% vs. 0.1%), gout (0.2% vs. 0.1%), and nephrolithiasis (0.2% vs. 0%) were reported with aliskiren at a rate greater than placebo. Minor increases in blood urea nitrogen (BUN) or serum creatinine were observed in less than 7% of patients with essential hypertension treated with aliskiren vs. 6% on placebo.


seizures


A single episode of tonic-clonic seizures was reported in 2 patients during clinical trials of aliskiren. One patient had predisposing causes for seizures and had a negative electroencephalogram (EEG) and cerebral imaging following the seizures; EEG and imaging results were not reported for the other patient. Aliskiren was discontinued without rechallenge in both patients.


back pain


Back pain occurred in placebo-controlled clinical trials at an incidence of more than 1% of patients treated with aliskiren, but also occurred at about the same or greater incidence in patients receiving placebo.


anemia


Small, dose-related decreases in mean hemoglobin (0.08 g/dL) and hematocrit (0.16 volume percent) were observed resulting in a slightly increased rate of anemia with aliskiren compared to placebo (0.1% for any aliskiren use, 0.3% for aliskiren 600 mg daily, vs 0% for placebo). This effect is also seen with other agents acting on the renin angiotensin system and may be mediated by reduction of angiotensin II which stimulates erythropoetin production via the AT1 receptor. No patients discontinued therapy due to anemia.


rash (unspecified), Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis


Rash (unspecified) was reported in 1% of aliskiren-treated patients vs. 0.3% placebo-treated patients. During post-marketing experience, severe cutaneous adverse reactions including Stevens-Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis have been reported.


teratogenesis


Due to the potential for teratogenesis, aliskiren should not be used during pregnancy. Drugs which affect the renin-angiotensin system have been associated with fetal and neonatal abnormalities when administered to pregnant women. Adverse fetal and neonatal effects have included hypotension, neonatal skull hypoplasia, anuria, reversible or irreversible renal failure, oligohydramnios, and death. Oligohydramnios has been associated with fetal limb contractures, craniofacial deformation, and hypoplastic lung development. If oliguria or hypotension occurs in a neonate with a history of in utero exposure to aliskiren, blood pressure and renal perfusion support may be required, as well as exchange transfusion or dialysis to reverse hypotension and/or support decreased renal function.


renal failure (unspecified)


Monitor renal function periodically in patients treated with aliskiren. If a patient develops a clinically significant decrease in renal function, consider withholding or discontinuing aliskiren therapy. Drugs that affect the renin-angiotensin system, can cause changes in renal function, including acute renal failure (unspecified). The risk for development of acute renal failure may be increased in patients whose renal function may depend in part on the activity of the renin-angiotensin system (e.g., patients with renal artery stenosis, severe heart failure, post-myocardial infarction or volume depletion) or patients receiving angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors), angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs) or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory (NSAID) therapy.


Description

Aliskiren is a direct renin inhibitor indicated for the treatment of hypertension, either alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents in adults and pediatric patients 6 years and older who weigh 50 kg or greater. Blood pressure reduction with aliskiren is similar to reductions observed with hydrochlorothiazide, angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, and angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs). Coadministration of aliskiren with ACE inhibitors or ARBs is contraindicated in patients with diabetes mellitus due to increased risk of renal impairment, hyperkalemia, and hypotension. Aliskiren should generally be avoided in any patient with a CrCl less than 60 mL/minute who is also taking an ACE inhibitor or ARB. Aliskiren is recommended as a second-line antihypertensive agent in patients who require additional blood pressure reduction. Aliskiren was approved by the FDA on March 5, 2007.

Mechanism Of Action

Aliskiren has an innovative mechanism of action for the treatment of hypertension and end organ damage. It is the first renin inhibitor approved and acts within the renin-angiotensin system (RAS), a hormone system important in the regulation of blood pressure, electrolyte homeostasis, and vascular growth. The RAS includes a cascade of events, beginning with renin, which cleaves the inactive peptide angiotensinogen, converting it to angiotensin I. Angiotensin I (Ang I) is then converted by angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) to the biologically active vasoconstrictor angiotensin II (Ang II). Aliskiren significantly inhibits the RAS in a dose-dependent manner with maximum reductions in Ang II observed within one hour following oral administration. ACE inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs) have been developed to block this system 'down stream' and have shown clinical efficacy in patients with hypertension, chronic renal failure, congestive heart failure, and other cardiovascular diseases. Because renin catalyzes the first and rate-limiting step of the RAS and has high specificity for its substrate, angiotensinogen, renin inhibitors present the new mechanism for blocking this complex hormonal system at its initial point of activation resulting in major potential benefits in blood pressure control and perhaps a more beneficial side effect profile. In contrast to ACE, which acts on bradykinin in addition to Ang I, renin is highly selective for angiotensinogen. Although the increased levels of bradykinin and substance P that occur with ACE inhibition may contribute to blood pressure reduction, they are also responsible for side effects associated with ACE inhibitors. Clinical trial evidence suggests that blockade of the RAS by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition or by angiotensin receptor blockade may influence large vessel atherosclerosis and cardiovascular morbidity and mortality independent of lowering blood pressure.

Pharmacokinetics

Aliskiren is administered orally. It appears that metabolism does not play a large role in elimination, as 91% of a radiolabeled dose is eliminated unchanged in the feces. It is unclear how much of the dose is metabolized, but hepatobiliary clearance seems to be the main route of elimination. Based on in vitro studies, the major enzyme responsible metabolism is CYP3A4. Aliskiren has an approximate accumulation half-life of 24 hours, allowing for once daily dosing. Following oral administration, approximately 25% of the absorbed dose is present in the urine as parent drug.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A4 and P-gp
Aliskiren does not inhibit or induce any CYP450 isozymes, including CYP3A4. Aliskiren is a CYP3A4 substrate. Preclinical studies indicate it is also a substrate for P-glycoprotein.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route

As with other previously studied renin inhibitors, Aliskiren is poorly absorbed following oral administration and has a bioavailability of about 2.5%. Peak plasma concentrations are reached within 1 to 3 hours of dosing; steady-state blood concentrations are reached in about 7 to 8 days. Administration with a high fat meal decreases the mean AUC and Cmax by 71% and 85%, respectively. Although patients are encouraged to take their dose on a fixed schedule with regard to meals, aliskiren was dosed without regard to meals in clinical evaluation.

Hepatic Impairment

Pharmacokinetic parameters are not significantly affected in patients with mild to severe hepatic disease. Therefore, dosage adjustments are not required for patients with hepatic impairment.

Renal Impairment

Pharmacokinetic parameters have been evaluated in patients with varying degrees of renal insufficiency. Rate and extent of exposure (AUC and Cmax) in subjects with renal impairment does not consistently correlate with severity of renal impairment. After a single 300 mg oral dose in adult patients with end stage renal disease (ESRD) undergoing hemodialysis, there was no clinically significant change in Cmax or AUC compared to those of healthy subjects. In addition, the pharmacokinetics of aliskiren are not altered by the timing of hemodialysis. Dosage adjustments are not recommended for patients with renal impairment or in patients with ESRD receiving hemodialysis; however, precautions do apply.

Pediatrics

The pharmacokinetics of aliskiren have been evaluated in 39 pediatric patients 6 to 17 years of age. Following 8 days of aliskiren therapy at a dose of 2 mg/kg (0.67 times the lowest approved dose for a 50 kg pediatric patient) or 6 mg/kg (highest recommended dose in a 50 kg pediatric patient), aliskiren pharmacokinetic parameters were found to be similar between pediatric and adult patients. Aliskiren exposure decreased with an increase in body weight. In an 8-week, randomized, double-blind study involving 267 pediatric patients (6 to 17 years of age), fasting trough aliskiren concentrations at Day 28 were similar to other studies involving both adult and peditric patients. Based on studies in juvenile animals, high aliskiren exposures may occur in pediatric patients less than 2 years of age due to immature transporters and metabolic enzymes; aliskiren is contraindicated in this patient population. Limited information on aliskiren metabolism and exposures are available in children 2 to less than 6 years of age. No information is available on aliskiren in pediatric patients with a glomerular filtration rate less than 30 mL/min/1.73 m2.

Geriatric

Persons aged 65 years and older included in pharmacokinetic assessments experienced an increase in drug exposure as measured by AUC; however, adjustments of the starting dose is not required.

Ethnic Differences

Minimal differences are observed in the pharmacokinetics of Black patients, White patients, and Japanese patients, with Black patients experiencing slightly smaller reductions in blood pressure as compared to other subgroups.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Oral Administration


May be given with or without food. However, should be administered consistently with regards to meals; high fat meals can significantly decrease drug absorption and may alter the clinical efficacy.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

300 mg/day PO.

Geriatric

300 mg/day PO.

Adolescents

Weighing 50 kg or more: 300 mg/day PO
Weighing 20 kg to 49 kg: 150 mg/day PO

Children

6 to 12 years weighing 50 kg or more: 300 mg/day PO.
6 to 12 years weighing 20 kg to 49 kg: 150 mg/day PO. Not indicated; lack of appropriate dosage form available.
2 to 5 years: Not recommended
Younger than 2 years: Contraindicated.

Infants

Contraindicated.

Neonates

Contraindicated.

Dosage Forms

Aliskiren Hemifumarate 150mg Oral tablet

Aliskiren Hemifumarate 300mg Oral tablet

Tekturna 150mg Tablet

Tekturna 300mg Tablet

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in patients with hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

Renal Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in patients with renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed. Safety and effectiveness have not been established in patients with severe renal impairment defined as a CrCl less than 30 mL/min as this population was excluded from efficacy trials.
 
Intermittent hemodialysis
No dosage adjustment is necessary in patients with end-stage renal disease undergoing hemodialysis.

© 2026 Elsevier