=== Memantine (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 2472)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Memantine is an N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist indicated for the symptomatic management of moderate to severe Alzheimer's disease both as monotherapy and in combination with donepezil, a cholinesterase inhibitor (ChEI).

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 20 mg/day PO immediate-release formulations; 28 mg/day PO extended-release formulation.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): rash, stevens-johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, agitation, anxiety, confusion, depression, dizziness, drowsiness, fatigue, hallucinations, headache, irritability, suicidal ideation, heart failure, hypertension, hypotension, cough, dyspnea, fever, influenza, pharyngitis, rhinorrhea, pancreatitis, weight gain, agranulocytosis, leukopenia, neutropenia, pancytopenia, thrombocytopenia

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: The use of memantine is contraindicated in any patient with a known memantine hypersensitivity, or any inactive ingredients or excipients contained within memantine. Caregivers of patients receiving memantine should be instructed on the escalating dose procedure for memantine.

Brand Names
  - Namenda
  - Namenda XR

Dosage Forms
  - Memantine 10mg Oral tablet
  - Memantine 10mg Oral tablet, Memantine 5mg Oral tablet
  - Memantine 10mg/5mL Oral solution
  - Memantine 14mg Oral capsule, extended release
  - Memantine 14mg, Donepezil Hydrochloride 10mg Oral capsule, extended release
  - Memantine 21mg Oral capsule, extended release
  - Memantine 21mg, Donepezil Hydrochloride 10mg Oral capsule, extended release
  - Memantine 28mg Oral capsule, extended release
  - Memantine 28mg, Donepezil Hydrochloride 10mg Oral capsule, extended release
  - Memantine 5mg Oral tablet
  - Memantine 7mg Oral capsule, extended release
  - Namenda 10mg Tablet
  - Namenda 5mg Tablet
  - Namenda XR 7mg Extended-Release Capsule (Once-Daily)
  - Namenda XR Titration Pak
  - Namzaric 14mg-10mg Extended-Release Capsule
  - Namzaric 21mg-10mg Extended-Release Capsule
  - Namzaric 28mg-10mg Extended-Release Capsule
  - Namzaric 7mg-10mg Extended-Release Capsule

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage (immediate-release)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        5 mg PO once daily, initially. Increase the dose by 5 mg/day every week if tolerated. Usual dose: 10 mg PO twice daily.
      Heading
      Oral dosage (extended-release for memantine-naive)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        7 mg PO once daily, initially. Increase the dose by 7 mg/day every week if tolerated. Usual dose: 28 mg/day. Max: 28 mg/day.
      Heading
      Oral dosage (extended release for converting from immediate-release memantine)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        28 mg PO once daily for 10 mg PO twice daily.
    Heading
    For the treatment of moderate to severe Alzheimer's disease
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        Limited data suggest 10 mg PO once daily titrated to 40 mg/day (administered as 10 mg 4 times daily) may be effective in reducing median eye speed and/or improving visual acuity. Study duration was 7 to 14 days.
    Heading
    For the symptomatic treatment of acquired pendular nystagmus†
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage (immediate-release)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        5 mg PO once daily for 3 days, then 10 mg PO once daily. Guidelines classify memantine as having probable efficacy for migraine prophylaxis, making it a potential treatment option when preferred treatments are ineffective or intolerable.
    Heading
    For migraine prophylaxis†

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  The use of memantine is contraindicated in any patient with a known memantine hypersensitivity, or any inactive ingredients or excipients contained within memantine.
 
Caregivers of patients receiving memantine should be instructed on the escalating dose procedure for memantine.
 
Memantine has not been evaluated in patients with seizure disorders; patients receiving memantine who have seizures or a history of a seizure disorder should be carefully monitored.
 
Memantine undergoes partial hepatic metabolism, with about 48% of administered dose excreted in urine as unchanged drug or as the sum of parent drug and the N-glucuronide conjugate (74%). According to the manufacturer, no dosage adjustments are needed in patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment; however caution is advised when using the drug in those with severe hepatic disease.
 
Patients with renal impairment, or renal disease leading to renal impairment may be at risk for accumulation of memantine resulting in toxicity. Memantine is eliminated primarily by the kidneys with a half-life of 60— 80 hours. Dosage adjustments are not needed in patients with mild to moderate renal impairment; dose adjustments are required with severe renal impairment. Data are not available from the manufacturer regarding the use of memantine in patients with renal failure. The elderly may be at greater risk for renal impairment due to age-related changes in renal function, concomitant medications or other risk factors. Memantine is partly eliminated via renal tubular secretion and thus may be susceptible to drug interactions involving these processes. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion (see Drug Interactions) may compete with memantine for common renal tubular transport systems, thus possibly decreasing the elimination of one of the drugs. Although many interactions are theoretical, careful patient monitoring of response to memantine and/or the potentially interacting drug is recommended to assess for needed dosage adjustments.
 
Memantine is classified as FDA pregnancy risk category B. There are no adequate and well-controlled studies in pregnant women. Memantine should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus.
 
It is not known whether memantine is excreted in human breast milk. Because many drugs are excreted in human milk, caution should be exercised when memantine is administered during breast-feeding.
 
Memantine is not indicated for use in children. Accordingly, the safety and effectiveness of memantine in children has not been evaluated.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment, renal tubular acidosis, urinary tract infection
    General Information
    Memantine is predominantly eliminated by the kidneys in part by tubular secretion, and a dosage reduction is recommended in people with severe renal impairment (CrCl less than 30 mL/minute), including renal failure. Conditions that raise urine pH may decrease the urinary elimination of memantine, increase plasma exposure, and potentially increase the risk of adverse reactions. Therefore, use memantine with caution in people with conditions that could increase urinary pH such as renal tubular acidosis (RTA) or severe urinary tract infection (UTI). Urine pH may also be altered by dietary intake or concurrent medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure
    General Information
    Memantine undergoes partial hepatic metabolism. Caution is advised when using memantine in people with severe hepatic disease (Child-Pugh class C) or hepatic failure as memantine has not been studied in these patients. No dosage adjustments are required in people with mild to moderate hepatic impairment.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no adequate data on the developmental risk associated with the use of memantine during pregnancy. Adverse developmental effects (decreased body weight and skeletal ossification) were observed in the offspring of rats given memantine during pregnancy at doses associated with minimal maternal toxicity. The doses were higher than those used in humans at the maximum recommended daily dose of memantine.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use memantine with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of memantine in human milk, the effects on the breastfed infant, or the effects of memantine on milk production. When considering the use of memantine during breast-feeding, assess the developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding, along with the clinical need for memantine and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from memantine or from the underlying maternal condition.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no adequate data on the developmental risk associated with the use of memantine during pregnancy. Adverse developmental effects (decreased body weight and skeletal ossification) were observed in the offspring of rats given memantine during pregnancy at doses associated with minimal maternal toxicity. The doses were higher than those used in humans at the maximum recommended daily dose of memantine.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use memantine with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of memantine in human milk, the effects on the breastfed infant, or the effects of memantine on milk production. When considering the use of memantine during breast-feeding, assess the developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding, along with the clinical need for memantine and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from memantine or from the underlying maternal condition.

Interactions
Abacavir; Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Memantine is excreted in part by renal tubular secretion. Competition of memantine for excretion with other drugs that are also eliminated by tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, could result in elevated serum concentrations of one or both drugs.
Abacavir; lamiVUDine, 3TC: (Moderate) Memantine is excreted in part by renal tubular secretion. Competition of memantine for excretion with other drugs that are also eliminated by tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, could result in elevated serum concentrations of one or both drugs.
Abacavir; lamiVUDine, 3TC; Zidovudine, ZDV: (Moderate) Memantine is excreted in part by renal tubular secretion. Competition of memantine for excretion with other drugs that are also eliminated by tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, could result in elevated serum concentrations of one or both drugs.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Dextromethorphan is a NMDA antagonist and may lead to additive adverse effects if combined with memantine, also an NMDA antagonist. It may be prudent to avoid coadministration of dextromethorphan with memantine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for increased adverse effects such as agitation, dizziness and other CNS events.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Dextromethorphan is a NMDA antagonist and may lead to additive adverse effects if combined with memantine, also an NMDA antagonist. It may be prudent to avoid coadministration of dextromethorphan with memantine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for increased adverse effects such as agitation, dizziness and other CNS events.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Dextromethorphan is a NMDA antagonist and may lead to additive adverse effects if combined with memantine, also an NMDA antagonist. It may be prudent to avoid coadministration of dextromethorphan with memantine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for increased adverse effects such as agitation, dizziness and other CNS events.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Dextromethorphan is a NMDA antagonist and may lead to additive adverse effects if combined with memantine, also an NMDA antagonist. It may be prudent to avoid coadministration of dextromethorphan with memantine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for increased adverse effects such as agitation, dizziness and other CNS events.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Moderate) Dextromethorphan is a NMDA antagonist and may lead to additive adverse effects if combined with memantine, also an NMDA antagonist. It may be prudent to avoid coadministration of dextromethorphan with memantine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for increased adverse effects such as agitation, dizziness and other CNS events.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Dextromethorphan is a NMDA antagonist and may lead to additive adverse effects if combined with memantine, also an NMDA antagonist. It may be prudent to avoid coadministration of dextromethorphan with memantine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for increased adverse effects such as agitation, dizziness and other CNS events.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Dextromethorphan is a NMDA antagonist and may lead to additive adverse effects if combined with memantine, also an NMDA antagonist. It may be prudent to avoid coadministration of dextromethorphan with memantine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for increased adverse effects such as agitation, dizziness and other CNS events.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Dextromethorphan is a NMDA antagonist and may lead to additive adverse effects if combined with memantine, also an NMDA antagonist. It may be prudent to avoid coadministration of dextromethorphan with memantine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for increased adverse effects such as agitation, dizziness and other CNS events.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Dextromethorphan is a NMDA antagonist and may lead to additive adverse effects if combined with memantine, also an NMDA antagonist. It may be prudent to avoid coadministration of dextromethorphan with memantine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for increased adverse effects such as agitation, dizziness and other CNS events.
acetaZOLAMIDE: (Moderate) Systemic carbonic anhydrous inhibitors have the potential to increase urine pH, and potentially reduce the renal clearance of memantine. The clearance of memantine is reduced by about 80% under alkaline urine conditions at pH 8. Increases in urinary pH may decrease elimination of memantine, resulting in drug accumulation and potential toxicity.
Adefovir: (Moderate) Adefovir is eliminated renally by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion; coadministration of adefovir dipivoxil with drugs that reduce renal function or compete for active tubular secretion, such as memantine, may decrease adefovir elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems; therefore increasing serum concentrations of either adefovir and/or memantine may occur.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Memantine reduced the bioavailability of hydrochlorothiazide by roughly 20% in a drug interaction study. The clinical significance of this pharmacokinetic interaction, if any, is unknown.
Alkalinizing Agents: (Moderate) Monitor for memantine-related adverse effects if concomitant use with a urine alkalinizing agent is necessary. Alkaline urine conditions have been observed to reduce memantine clearance by 80%.
Alogliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion (e.g., memantine) may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems. It should be noted that in a pharmacokinetic study in which memantine and glyburide; metformin (Glucovance) were coadministered, the pharmacokinetics of memantine, metformin, or glyburide were not altered. Regardless, careful patient monitoring is recommended.
Amantadine: (Moderate) Amantadine is a NMDA antagonist and may lead to additive adverse effects if combined with memantine, also an NMDA antagonist. It may be prudent to avoid coadministration of amantadine with memantine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for increased adverse effects such as agitation, dizziness and other CNS events.
aMILoride: (Minor) Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as amiloride, may decrease memantine elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems. Careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of memantine and/or amiloride is recommended.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as amiloride, may decrease memantine elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems. Careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of memantine and/or amiloride is recommended. (Minor) Memantine reduced the bioavailability of hydrochlorothiazide by roughly 20% in a drug interaction study. The clinical significance of this pharmacokinetic interaction, if any, is unknown.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Memantine reduced the bioavailability of hydrochlorothiazide by roughly 20% in a drug interaction study. The clinical significance of this pharmacokinetic interaction, if any, is unknown.
Anticholinergics: (Moderate) The adverse effects of anticholinergics, such as dry mouth, urinary hesitancy or blurred vision may be enhanced with use of memantine; dosage adjustments of the anticholinergic drug may be required when memantine is coadministered. In addition, preliminary evidence indicates that chronic anticholinergic use in patients with Alzheimer's Disease may possibly have an adverse effect on cognitive function. Therefore, the effectiveness of drugs used in the treatment of Alzheimer's such as memantine, may be adversely affected by chronic antimuscarinic therapy.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Monitor for memantine-related adverse effects if concomitant use with a urine alkalinizing agent is necessary. Alkaline urine conditions have been observed to reduce memantine clearance by 80%.
Atropine: (Moderate) The adverse effects of anticholinergics, such as dry mouth, urinary hesitancy or blurred vision may be enhanced with use of memantine; dosage adjustments of the anticholinergic drug may be required when memantine is coadministered. In addition, preliminary evidence indicates that chronic anticholinergic use in patients with Alzheimer's Disease may possibly have an adverse effect on cognitive function. Therefore, the effectiveness of drugs used in the treatment of Alzheimer's such as memantine, may be adversely affected by chronic antimuscarinic therapy.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Moderate) The adverse effects of anticholinergics, such as dry mouth, urinary hesitancy or blurred vision may be enhanced with use of memantine; dosage adjustments of the anticholinergic drug may be required when memantine is coadministered. In addition, preliminary evidence indicates that chronic anticholinergic use in patients with Alzheimer's Disease may possibly have an adverse effect on cognitive function. Therefore, the effectiveness of drugs used in the treatment of Alzheimer's such as memantine, may be adversely affected by chronic antimuscarinic therapy.
Belladonna; Opium: (Moderate) The adverse effects of anticholinergics, such as dry mouth, urinary hesitancy or blurred vision may be enhanced with use of memantine; dosage adjustments of the anticholinergic drug may be required when memantine is coadministered. In addition, preliminary evidence indicates that chronic anticholinergic use in patients with Alzheimer's Disease may possibly have an adverse effect on cognitive function. Therefore, the effectiveness of drugs used in the treatment of Alzheimer's such as memantine, may be adversely affected by chronic antimuscarinic therapy.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Memantine reduced the bioavailability of hydrochlorothiazide by roughly 20% in a drug interaction study. The clinical significance of this pharmacokinetic interaction, if any, is unknown.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Moderate) The adverse effects of anticholinergics, such as dry mouth, urinary hesitancy or blurred vision may be enhanced with use of memantine; dosage adjustments of the anticholinergic drug may be required when memantine is coadministered. In addition, preliminary evidence indicates that chronic anticholinergic use in patients with Alzheimer's Disease may possibly have an adverse effect on cognitive function. Therefore, the effectiveness of drugs used in the treatment of Alzheimer's such as memantine, may be adversely affected by chronic antimuscarinic therapy.
Benztropine: (Moderate) The adverse effects of anticholinergics, such as dry mouth, urinary hesitancy or blurred vision may be enhanced with use of memantine; dosage adjustments of the anticholinergic drug may be required when memantine is coadministered. In addition, preliminary evidence indicates that chronic anticholinergic use in patients with Alzheimer's Disease may possibly have an adverse effect on cognitive function. Therefore, the effectiveness of drugs used in the treatment of Alzheimer's such as memantine, may be adversely affected by chronic antimuscarinic therapy.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Memantine reduced the bioavailability of hydrochlorothiazide by roughly 20% in a drug interaction study. The clinical significance of this pharmacokinetic interaction, if any, is unknown.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Dextromethorphan is a NMDA antagonist and may lead to additive adverse effects if combined with memantine, also an NMDA antagonist. It may be prudent to avoid coadministration of dextromethorphan with memantine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for increased adverse effects such as agitation, dizziness and other CNS events.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Dextromethorphan is a NMDA antagonist and may lead to additive adverse effects if combined with memantine, also an NMDA antagonist. It may be prudent to avoid coadministration of dextromethorphan with memantine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for increased adverse effects such as agitation, dizziness and other CNS events.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) The adverse effects of anticholinergics, such as dry mouth, urinary hesitancy or blurred vision may be enhanced with use of memantine; dosage adjustments of the anticholinergic drug may be required when memantine is coadministered. In addition, preliminary evidence indicates that chronic anticholinergic use in patients with Alzheimer's Disease may possibly have an adverse effect on cognitive function. Therefore, the effectiveness of drugs used in the treatment of Alzheimer's such as memantine, may be adversely affected by chronic antimuscarinic therapy.
Canagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion (e.g., memantine) may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems. It should be noted that in a pharmacokinetic study in which memantine and glyburide; metformin (Glucovance) were coadministered, the pharmacokinetics of memantine, metformin, or glyburide were not altered. Regardless, careful patient monitoring is recommended.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Memantine reduced the bioavailability of hydrochlorothiazide by roughly 20% in a drug interaction study. The clinical significance of this pharmacokinetic interaction, if any, is unknown.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Memantine reduced the bioavailability of hydrochlorothiazide by roughly 20% in a drug interaction study. The clinical significance of this pharmacokinetic interaction, if any, is unknown.
Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors: (Moderate) Systemic carbonic anhydrous inhibitors have the potential to increase urine pH, and potentially reduce the renal clearance of memantine. The clearance of memantine is reduced by about 80% under alkaline urine conditions at pH 8. Increases in urinary pH may decrease elimination of memantine, resulting in drug accumulation and potential toxicity.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Moderate) The adverse effects of anticholinergics, such as dry mouth, urinary hesitancy or blurred vision may be enhanced with use of memantine; dosage adjustments of the anticholinergic drug may be required when memantine is coadministered. In addition, preliminary evidence indicates that chronic anticholinergic use in patients with Alzheimer's Disease may possibly have an adverse effect on cognitive function. Therefore, the effectiveness of drugs used in the treatment of Alzheimer's such as memantine, may be adversely affected by chronic antimuscarinic therapy.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Dextromethorphan is a NMDA antagonist and may lead to additive adverse effects if combined with memantine, also an NMDA antagonist. It may be prudent to avoid coadministration of dextromethorphan with memantine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for increased adverse effects such as agitation, dizziness and other CNS events.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Dextromethorphan is a NMDA antagonist and may lead to additive adverse effects if combined with memantine, also an NMDA antagonist. It may be prudent to avoid coadministration of dextromethorphan with memantine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for increased adverse effects such as agitation, dizziness and other CNS events.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Dextromethorphan is a NMDA antagonist and may lead to additive adverse effects if combined with memantine, also an NMDA antagonist. It may be prudent to avoid coadministration of dextromethorphan with memantine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for increased adverse effects such as agitation, dizziness and other CNS events.
Cimetidine: (Moderate) Memantine is excreted in part by renal tubular secretion. Competition of memantine for excretion with other drugs that are also eliminated by tubular secretion, such as cimetidine, could result in elevated serum concentrations of one or both drugs.
Citric Acid; Potassium Citrate; Sodium Citrate: (Moderate) Monitor for memantine-related adverse effects if concomitant use with a urine alkalinizing agent is necessary. Alkaline urine conditions have been observed to reduce memantine clearance by 80%.
Clofarabine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine and memantine may result in altered clofarabine levels because both agents are a substrate of OCT2. Therefore, monitor for signs of clofarabine toxicity such as gastrointestinal toxicity (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, mucosal inflammation), hematologic toxicity, and skin toxicity (e.g., hand and foot syndrome, rash, pruritus) in patients also receiving OCT2 substrates.
Dapagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion (e.g., memantine) may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems. It should be noted that in a pharmacokinetic study in which memantine and glyburide; metformin (Glucovance) were coadministered, the pharmacokinetics of memantine, metformin, or glyburide were not altered. Regardless, careful patient monitoring is recommended.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Dextromethorphan is a NMDA antagonist and may lead to additive adverse effects if combined with memantine, also an NMDA antagonist. It may be prudent to avoid coadministration of dextromethorphan with memantine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for increased adverse effects such as agitation, dizziness and other CNS events.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Dextromethorphan is a NMDA antagonist and may lead to additive adverse effects if combined with memantine, also an NMDA antagonist. It may be prudent to avoid coadministration of dextromethorphan with memantine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for increased adverse effects such as agitation, dizziness and other CNS events.
Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Dextromethorphan is a NMDA antagonist and may lead to additive adverse effects if combined with memantine, also an NMDA antagonist. It may be prudent to avoid coadministration of dextromethorphan with memantine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for increased adverse effects such as agitation, dizziness and other CNS events.
Dextromethorphan; buPROPion: (Moderate) Dextromethorphan is a NMDA antagonist and may lead to additive adverse effects if combined with memantine, also an NMDA antagonist. It may be prudent to avoid coadministration of dextromethorphan with memantine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for increased adverse effects such as agitation, dizziness and other CNS events.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Dextromethorphan is a NMDA antagonist and may lead to additive adverse effects if combined with memantine, also an NMDA antagonist. It may be prudent to avoid coadministration of dextromethorphan with memantine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for increased adverse effects such as agitation, dizziness and other CNS events.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Dextromethorphan is a NMDA antagonist and may lead to additive adverse effects if combined with memantine, also an NMDA antagonist. It may be prudent to avoid coadministration of dextromethorphan with memantine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for increased adverse effects such as agitation, dizziness and other CNS events.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Dextromethorphan is a NMDA antagonist and may lead to additive adverse effects if combined with memantine, also an NMDA antagonist. It may be prudent to avoid coadministration of dextromethorphan with memantine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for increased adverse effects such as agitation, dizziness and other CNS events.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Dextromethorphan is a NMDA antagonist and may lead to additive adverse effects if combined with memantine, also an NMDA antagonist. It may be prudent to avoid coadministration of dextromethorphan with memantine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for increased adverse effects such as agitation, dizziness and other CNS events.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Major) Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as quinidine, may compete with memantine for common renal tubular transport systems, thus possibly decreasing the elimination of one of the drugs. Although theoretical, careful patient monitoring of response to memantine and/or quinidine is recommended to assess for needed dosage adjustments. In selected individuals, quinidine serum concentration monitoring may be appropriate. (Moderate) Dextromethorphan is a NMDA antagonist and may lead to additive adverse effects if combined with memantine, also an NMDA antagonist. It may be prudent to avoid coadministration of dextromethorphan with memantine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for increased adverse effects such as agitation, dizziness and other CNS events.
Dicyclomine: (Moderate) The adverse effects of anticholinergics, such as dry mouth, urinary hesitancy or blurred vision may be enhanced with use of memantine; dosage adjustments of the anticholinergic drug may be required when memantine is coadministered. In addition, preliminary evidence indicates that chronic anticholinergic use in patients with Alzheimer's Disease may possibly have an adverse effect on cognitive function. Therefore, the effectiveness of drugs used in the treatment of Alzheimer's such as memantine, may be adversely affected by chronic antimuscarinic therapy.
Digoxin: (Moderate) Digoxin is eliminated by renal tubular secretion and may compete with memantine for common renal tubular transport systems, thus possibly decreasing the elimination of one of the drugs. Although theoretical, careful patient monitoring of response to memantine and/or digoxin is recommended to assess for needed dosage adjustments. In selected individuals, digoxin serum concentration monitoring may be appropriate.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Moderate) The adverse effects of anticholinergics, such as dry mouth, urinary hesitancy or blurred vision may be enhanced with use of memantine; dosage adjustments of the anticholinergic drug may be required when memantine is coadministered. In addition, preliminary evidence indicates that chronic anticholinergic use in patients with Alzheimer's Disease may possibly have an adverse effect on cognitive function. Therefore, the effectiveness of drugs used in the treatment of Alzheimer's such as memantine, may be adversely affected by chronic antimuscarinic therapy.
Dofetilide: (Major) Drugs that are actively secreted via cationic secretion (e.g., memantine) should be co-administered with dofetilide with caution since they could increase dofetilide plasma concentrations via potential competition for renal tubular secretion. Competition for renal elimination may increase plasma concentrations of dofetilide and increase the risk of pro-arrhythmias.
Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Memantine is excreted in part by renal tubular secretion. Competition of memantine for excretion with other drugs that are also eliminated by tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, could result in elevated serum concentrations of one or both drugs.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Moderate) Memantine is excreted in part by renal tubular secretion. Competition of memantine for excretion with other drugs that are also eliminated by tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, could result in elevated serum concentrations of one or both drugs.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Memantine is excreted in part by renal tubular secretion. Competition of memantine for excretion with other drugs that are also eliminated by tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, could result in elevated serum concentrations of one or both drugs.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion (e.g., memantine) may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems. It should be noted that in a pharmacokinetic study in which memantine and glyburide; metformin (Glucovance) were coadministered, the pharmacokinetics of memantine, metformin, or glyburide were not altered. Regardless, careful patient monitoring is recommended.
Empagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion (e.g., memantine) may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems. It should be noted that in a pharmacokinetic study in which memantine and glyburide; metformin (Glucovance) were coadministered, the pharmacokinetics of memantine, metformin, or glyburide were not altered. Regardless, careful patient monitoring is recommended.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Memantine reduced the bioavailability of hydrochlorothiazide by roughly 20% in a drug interaction study. The clinical significance of this pharmacokinetic interaction, if any, is unknown.
Entecavir: (Moderate) Entecavir is eliminated by active tubular secretion. In theory, coadministration of entecavir with other drugs that are eliminated by active tubular secretion, such as memantine, may increase the serum concentrations of entecavir or memantine due to competition for the drug elimination pathway.
Ertugliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion (e.g., memantine) may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems. It should be noted that in a pharmacokinetic study in which memantine and glyburide; metformin (Glucovance) were coadministered, the pharmacokinetics of memantine, metformin, or glyburide were not altered. Regardless, careful patient monitoring is recommended.
flavoxATE: (Moderate) The adverse effects of anticholinergics, such as dry mouth, urinary hesitancy or blurred vision may be enhanced with use of memantine; dosage adjustments of the anticholinergic drug may be required when memantine is coadministered. In addition, preliminary evidence indicates that chronic anticholinergic use in patients with Alzheimer's Disease may possibly have an adverse effect on cognitive function. Therefore, the effectiveness of drugs used in the treatment of Alzheimer's such as memantine, may be adversely affected by chronic antimuscarinic therapy.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Memantine reduced the bioavailability of hydrochlorothiazide by roughly 20% in a drug interaction study. The clinical significance of this pharmacokinetic interaction, if any, is unknown.
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion (e.g., memantine) may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems. It should be noted that in a pharmacokinetic study in which memantine and glyburide; metformin (Glucovance) were coadministered, the pharmacokinetics of memantine, metformin, or glyburide were not altered. Regardless, careful patient monitoring is recommended.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion (e.g., memantine) may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems. It should be noted that in a pharmacokinetic study in which memantine and glyburide; metformin (Glucovance) were coadministered, the pharmacokinetics of memantine, metformin, or glyburide were not altered. Regardless, careful patient monitoring is recommended.
Glycopyrrolate: (Moderate) The adverse effects of anticholinergics, such as dry mouth, urinary hesitancy or blurred vision may be enhanced with use of memantine; dosage adjustments of the anticholinergic drug may be required when memantine is coadministered. In addition, preliminary evidence indicates that chronic anticholinergic use in patients with Alzheimer's Disease may possibly have an adverse effect on cognitive function. Therefore, the effectiveness of drugs used in the treatment of Alzheimer's such as memantine, may be adversely affected by chronic antimuscarinic therapy.
Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) The adverse effects of anticholinergics, such as dry mouth, urinary hesitancy or blurred vision may be enhanced with use of memantine; dosage adjustments of the anticholinergic drug may be required when memantine is coadministered. In addition, preliminary evidence indicates that chronic anticholinergic use in patients with Alzheimer's Disease may possibly have an adverse effect on cognitive function. Therefore, the effectiveness of drugs used in the treatment of Alzheimer's such as memantine, may be adversely affected by chronic antimuscarinic therapy.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) The adverse effects of anticholinergics, such as dry mouth, urinary hesitancy or blurred vision may be enhanced with use of memantine; dosage adjustments of the anticholinergic drug may be required when memantine is coadministered. In addition, preliminary evidence indicates that chronic anticholinergic use in patients with Alzheimer's Disease may possibly have an adverse effect on cognitive function. Therefore, the effectiveness of drugs used in the treatment of Alzheimer's such as memantine, may be adversely affected by chronic antimuscarinic therapy.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Memantine reduced the bioavailability of hydrochlorothiazide by roughly 20% in a drug interaction study. The clinical significance of this pharmacokinetic interaction, if any, is unknown.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Minor) Memantine reduced the bioavailability of hydrochlorothiazide by roughly 20% in a drug interaction study. The clinical significance of this pharmacokinetic interaction, if any, is unknown.
Hyoscyamine: (Moderate) The adverse effects of anticholinergics, such as dry mouth, urinary hesitancy or blurred vision may be enhanced with use of memantine; dosage adjustments of the anticholinergic drug may be required when memantine is coadministered. In addition, preliminary evidence indicates that chronic anticholinergic use in patients with Alzheimer's Disease may possibly have an adverse effect on cognitive function. Therefore, the effectiveness of drugs used in the treatment of Alzheimer's such as memantine, may be adversely affected by chronic antimuscarinic therapy.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Moderate) The adverse effects of anticholinergics, such as dry mouth, urinary hesitancy or blurred vision may be enhanced with use of memantine; dosage adjustments of the anticholinergic drug may be required when memantine is coadministered. In addition, preliminary evidence indicates that chronic anticholinergic use in patients with Alzheimer's Disease may possibly have an adverse effect on cognitive function. Therefore, the effectiveness of drugs used in the treatment of Alzheimer's such as memantine, may be adversely affected by chronic antimuscarinic therapy.
Ibritumomab Tiuxetan: (Moderate) Monitor for memantine-related adverse effects if concomitant use with a urine alkalinizing agent is necessary. Alkaline urine conditions have been observed to reduce memantine clearance by 80%.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Memantine reduced the bioavailability of hydrochlorothiazide by roughly 20% in a drug interaction study. The clinical significance of this pharmacokinetic interaction, if any, is unknown.
Ketamine: (Moderate) Ketamine is a NMDA antagonist and may lead to additive adverse effects if combined with memantine, also an NMDA antagonist. It may be prudent to avoid coadministration of ketamine with memantine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for increased adverse effects such as agitation, dizziness and other CNS events.
lamiVUDine, 3TC: (Moderate) Memantine is excreted in part by renal tubular secretion. Competition of memantine for excretion with other drugs that are also eliminated by tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, could result in elevated serum concentrations of one or both drugs.
lamiVUDine, 3TC; Zidovudine, ZDV: (Moderate) Memantine is excreted in part by renal tubular secretion. Competition of memantine for excretion with other drugs that are also eliminated by tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, could result in elevated serum concentrations of one or both drugs.
lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Memantine is excreted in part by renal tubular secretion. Competition of memantine for excretion with other drugs that are also eliminated by tubular secretion, such as lamivudine, could result in elevated serum concentrations of one or both drugs.
Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion (e.g., memantine) may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems. It should be noted that in a pharmacokinetic study in which memantine and glyburide; metformin (Glucovance) were coadministered, the pharmacokinetics of memantine, metformin, or glyburide were not altered. Regardless, careful patient monitoring is recommended.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Memantine reduced the bioavailability of hydrochlorothiazide by roughly 20% in a drug interaction study. The clinical significance of this pharmacokinetic interaction, if any, is unknown.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Memantine reduced the bioavailability of hydrochlorothiazide by roughly 20% in a drug interaction study. The clinical significance of this pharmacokinetic interaction, if any, is unknown.
metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion (e.g., memantine) may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems. It should be noted that in a pharmacokinetic study in which memantine and glyburide; metformin (Glucovance) were coadministered, the pharmacokinetics of memantine, metformin, or glyburide were not altered. Regardless, careful patient monitoring is recommended.
metFORMIN; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion (e.g., memantine) may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems. It should be noted that in a pharmacokinetic study in which memantine and glyburide; metformin (Glucovance) were coadministered, the pharmacokinetics of memantine, metformin, or glyburide were not altered. Regardless, careful patient monitoring is recommended.
metFORMIN; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion (e.g., memantine) may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems. It should be noted that in a pharmacokinetic study in which memantine and glyburide; metformin (Glucovance) were coadministered, the pharmacokinetics of memantine, metformin, or glyburide were not altered. Regardless, careful patient monitoring is recommended.
methazolAMIDE: (Moderate) Systemic carbonic anhydrous inhibitors have the potential to increase urine pH, and potentially reduce the renal clearance of memantine. The clearance of memantine is reduced by about 80% under alkaline urine conditions at pH 8. Increases in urinary pH may decrease elimination of memantine, resulting in drug accumulation and potential toxicity.
Methenamine; Sodium Acid Phosphate; Methylene Blue; Hyoscyamine: (Moderate) The adverse effects of anticholinergics, such as dry mouth, urinary hesitancy or blurred vision may be enhanced with use of memantine; dosage adjustments of the anticholinergic drug may be required when memantine is coadministered. In addition, preliminary evidence indicates that chronic anticholinergic use in patients with Alzheimer's Disease may possibly have an adverse effect on cognitive function. Therefore, the effectiveness of drugs used in the treatment of Alzheimer's such as memantine, may be adversely affected by chronic antimuscarinic therapy.
Methscopolamine: (Moderate) The adverse effects of anticholinergics, such as dry mouth, urinary hesitancy or blurred vision may be enhanced with use of memantine; dosage adjustments of the anticholinergic drug may be required when memantine is coadministered. In addition, preliminary evidence indicates that chronic anticholinergic use in patients with Alzheimer's Disease may possibly have an adverse effect on cognitive function. Therefore, the effectiveness of drugs used in the treatment of Alzheimer's such as memantine, may be adversely affected by chronic antimuscarinic therapy.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Memantine reduced the bioavailability of hydrochlorothiazide by roughly 20% in a drug interaction study. The clinical significance of this pharmacokinetic interaction, if any, is unknown.
Midodrine: (Moderate) Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as midodrine, may decrease memantine elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems. Although this interaction is theoretical, careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of memantine and/or midodrine is recommended.
Morphine: (Moderate) Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as morphine, may compete with memantine for common renal tubular transport systems, thus possibly decreasing the elimination of one of the drugs. Although theoretical, careful patient monitoring of response to memantine and/or morphine is recommended to assess for needed dosage adjustments.
Neostigmine; Glycopyrrolate: (Moderate) The adverse effects of anticholinergics, such as dry mouth, urinary hesitancy or blurred vision may be enhanced with use of memantine; dosage adjustments of the anticholinergic drug may be required when memantine is coadministered. In addition, preliminary evidence indicates that chronic anticholinergic use in patients with Alzheimer's Disease may possibly have an adverse effect on cognitive function. Therefore, the effectiveness of drugs used in the treatment of Alzheimer's such as memantine, may be adversely affected by chronic antimuscarinic therapy.
Nicotine: (Minor) Memantine is excreted in part by renal tubular secretion. Competition of memantine for excretion with other drugs that are also eliminated by tubular secretion, like nicotine, could result in elevated serum concentrations of one or both drugs.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Memantine reduced the bioavailability of hydrochlorothiazide by roughly 20% in a drug interaction study. The clinical significance of this pharmacokinetic interaction, if any, is unknown.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Memantine reduced the bioavailability of hydrochlorothiazide by roughly 20% in a drug interaction study. The clinical significance of this pharmacokinetic interaction, if any, is unknown.
Omeprazole; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Monitor for memantine-related adverse effects if concomitant use with a urine alkalinizing agent is necessary. Alkaline urine conditions have been observed to reduce memantine clearance by 80%.
oxyBUTYnin: (Moderate) The adverse effects of anticholinergics, such as dry mouth, urinary hesitancy or blurred vision may be enhanced with use of memantine; dosage adjustments of the anticholinergic drug may be required when memantine is coadministered. In addition, preliminary evidence indicates that chronic anticholinergic use in patients with Alzheimer's Disease may possibly have an adverse effect on cognitive function. Therefore, the effectiveness of drugs used in the treatment of Alzheimer's such as memantine, may be adversely affected by chronic antimuscarinic therapy.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Moderate) The adverse effects of anticholinergics, such as dry mouth, urinary hesitancy or blurred vision may be enhanced with use of memantine; dosage adjustments of the anticholinergic drug may be required when memantine is coadministered. In addition, preliminary evidence indicates that chronic anticholinergic use in patients with Alzheimer's Disease may possibly have an adverse effect on cognitive function. Therefore, the effectiveness of drugs used in the treatment of Alzheimer's such as memantine, may be adversely affected by chronic antimuscarinic therapy.
Pioglitazone; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion (e.g., memantine) may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems. It should be noted that in a pharmacokinetic study in which memantine and glyburide; metformin (Glucovance) were coadministered, the pharmacokinetics of memantine, metformin, or glyburide were not altered. Regardless, careful patient monitoring is recommended.
Potassium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Monitor for memantine-related adverse effects if concomitant use with a urine alkalinizing agent is necessary. Alkaline urine conditions have been observed to reduce memantine clearance by 80%.
Potassium Chloride: (Moderate) Monitor for memantine-related adverse effects if concomitant use with a urine alkalinizing agent is necessary. Alkaline urine conditions have been observed to reduce memantine clearance by 80%.
Potassium Citrate: (Moderate) Monitor for memantine-related adverse effects if concomitant use with a urine alkalinizing agent is necessary. Alkaline urine conditions have been observed to reduce memantine clearance by 80%.
Potassium Citrate; Citric Acid: (Moderate) Monitor for memantine-related adverse effects if concomitant use with a urine alkalinizing agent is necessary. Alkaline urine conditions have been observed to reduce memantine clearance by 80%.
Procainamide: (Major) Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion such as procainamide, may compete with memantine for common renal tubular transport systems, thus possibly decreasing the elimination of one of the drugs. Although theoretical, careful patient monitoring of response to memantine and/or procainamide is recommended to assess for needed dosage adjustments. In selected individuals, procainamide serum concentration monitoring may be appropriate.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Dextromethorphan is a NMDA antagonist and may lead to additive adverse effects if combined with memantine, also an NMDA antagonist. It may be prudent to avoid coadministration of dextromethorphan with memantine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for increased adverse effects such as agitation, dizziness and other CNS events.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Memantine reduced the bioavailability of hydrochlorothiazide by roughly 20% in a drug interaction study. The clinical significance of this pharmacokinetic interaction, if any, is unknown.
quiNIDine: (Major) Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as quinidine, may compete with memantine for common renal tubular transport systems, thus possibly decreasing the elimination of one of the drugs. Although theoretical, careful patient monitoring of response to memantine and/or quinidine is recommended to assess for needed dosage adjustments. In selected individuals, quinidine serum concentration monitoring may be appropriate.
quiNINE: (Moderate) Memantine is excreted in part by renal tubular secretion. Competition of memantine for excretion with other drugs that are also eliminated by tubular secretion, such as quinine, could result in elevated serum concentrations of one or both drugs.
rOPINIRole: (Moderate) The pharmacologic effects of dopaminergic agents, including dopamine agonists and certain ergot derivatives may be enhanced with use of memantine; dosage adjustments of dopaminergic agents may be required when memantine is coadministered.
Rotigotine: (Moderate) The pharmacologic effects of dopaminergic agents, including dopamine agonists such as rotigotine, may be enhanced with use of memantine; dosage adjustments of dopaminergic agents may be required when memantine is coadministered.
Scopolamine: (Moderate) The adverse effects of anticholinergics, such as dry mouth, urinary hesitancy or blurred vision may be enhanced with use of memantine; dosage adjustments of the anticholinergic drug may be required when memantine is coadministered. In addition, preliminary evidence indicates that chronic anticholinergic use in patients with Alzheimer's Disease may possibly have an adverse effect on cognitive function. Therefore, the effectiveness of drugs used in the treatment of Alzheimer's such as memantine, may be adversely affected by chronic antimuscarinic therapy.
Sodium Acetate: (Moderate) Monitor for memantine-related adverse effects if concomitant use with a urine alkalinizing agent is necessary. Alkaline urine conditions have been observed to reduce memantine clearance by 80%.
Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Monitor for memantine-related adverse effects if concomitant use with a urine alkalinizing agent is necessary. Alkaline urine conditions have been observed to reduce memantine clearance by 80%.
Sodium Citrate; Citric Acid: (Moderate) Monitor for memantine-related adverse effects if concomitant use with a urine alkalinizing agent is necessary. Alkaline urine conditions have been observed to reduce memantine clearance by 80%.
Sodium Lactate: (Moderate) Monitor for memantine-related adverse effects if concomitant use with a urine alkalinizing agent is necessary. Alkaline urine conditions have been observed to reduce memantine clearance by 80%.
Solifenacin: (Moderate) The adverse effects of solifenacin may be enhanced with use of memantine; dosage adjustments of the solifenacin may be required when memantine is coadministered.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Memantine reduced the bioavailability of hydrochlorothiazide by roughly 20% in a drug interaction study. The clinical significance of this pharmacokinetic interaction, if any, is unknown.
Sulfacetamide; Sulfur: (Moderate) Monitor for memantine-related adverse effects if concomitant use with a urine alkalinizing agent is necessary. Alkaline urine conditions have been observed to reduce memantine clearance by 80%.
Sulfamethoxazole; Trimethoprim, SMX-TMP, Cotrimoxazole: (Moderate) Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as trimethoprim, may decrease memantine elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems. Although this interaction is theoretical, careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of memantine and/or trimethoprim is recommended.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Memantine reduced the bioavailability of hydrochlorothiazide by roughly 20% in a drug interaction study. The clinical significance of this pharmacokinetic interaction, if any, is unknown.
Triamterene: (Minor) Memantine is excreted in part by renal tubular secretion. Competition of memantine for excretion with other drugs that are also eliminated by tubular secretion, such as triamterene, could result in elevated serum concentrations of one or both drugs.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Memantine is excreted in part by renal tubular secretion. Competition of memantine for excretion with other drugs that are also eliminated by tubular secretion, such as triamterene, could result in elevated serum concentrations of one or both drugs. (Minor) Memantine reduced the bioavailability of hydrochlorothiazide by roughly 20% in a drug interaction study. The clinical significance of this pharmacokinetic interaction, if any, is unknown.
Trihexyphenidyl: (Moderate) The adverse effects of anticholinergics, such as dry mouth, urinary hesitancy or blurred vision may be enhanced with use of memantine; dosage adjustments of the anticholinergic drug may be required when memantine is coadministered. In addition, preliminary evidence indicates that chronic anticholinergic use in patients with Alzheimer's Disease may possibly have an adverse effect on cognitive function. Therefore, the effectiveness of drugs used in the treatment of Alzheimer's such as memantine, may be adversely affected by chronic antimuscarinic therapy.
Trimethoprim: (Moderate) Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as trimethoprim, may decrease memantine elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems. Although this interaction is theoretical, careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of memantine and/or trimethoprim is recommended.
Trospium: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of memantine and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase memantine and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Memantine reduced the bioavailability of hydrochlorothiazide by roughly 20% in a drug interaction study. The clinical significance of this pharmacokinetic interaction, if any, is unknown.
Vancomycin: (Moderate) Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion, such as vancomycin, may compete with memantine for common renal tubular transport systems, thus possibly decreasing the elimination of one of the drugs. Although theoretical, careful patient monitoring of response to memantine and/or vancomycin is recommended to assess for needed dosage adjustments. In selected individuals, vancomycin serum concentration monitoring may be appropriate.
Xanomeline; Trospium: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of memantine and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase memantine and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  In general, it appears that memantine is very well-tolerated. In a Phase III, 28-week, double-blind and placebo-controlled trial, adverse events (ADRs) occurred commonly with both memantine (n=126, 84%) and placebo (n=126, 87%). The most common ADRs (occurring in at least 10% of study patients in both groups) were agitation (18% memantine vs. 32% placebo); urinary incontinence (11% in both groups); urinary tract infection (6 vs.13%); insomnia (10 vs. 8%); and diarrhea (10 vs. 8%). Agitation does appear to be better controlled (vs. placebo) in many patients receiving memantine. In the placebo group, 17% discontinued the study early due to ADRs vs. 10% of patients receiving memantine, primarily due to agitation. Serious ADRs (unspecified) occurred in 18% (placebo) vs. 13% (memantine) of patients, including 7 deaths. Two patients receiving memantine died; most serious ADRs and all deaths were thought to be unrelated to study drug. No clinically relevant differences were seen between groups in regards to laboratory values, electrocardiographic results or measurements of vital signs. In Europe where memantine is approved, 2 post-marketing reports of toxic epidermal necrolysis (one resulting in a fatality) have been identified; however, causality with memantine is uncertain.In addition to agitation and insomnia, other CNS adverse effects that have been seen in clinical trials with memantine, at a rate >= 2% and higher than placebo include: dizziness (7% memantine vs. 5% placebo); headache (6 vs 3%); fatigue (2 vs. 1%) and pain (3 vs. 1%). Reported psychiatric adverse effects include: confusion (6 vs. 5%); somnolence or drowsiness (3 vs. 2%); and hallucinations (3 vs. 2%). Dizziness and confusion may be dose-related ADRs.Cardiovascular adverse effects appear to be minimal with memantine. Hypertension, occurring in 4% of patients receiving memantine vs. 2% of placebo patients has been reported.Other respiratory system adverse effects occurring in clinical trials with memantine, at a rate >= 2% and higher than placebo include: cough (4% memantine vs. 3% placebo) and dyspnea (2 vs. 1%). Many of the dyspnea reports were reported in association with concurrent bronchitis, pneumonia or other respiratory events.In addition to diarrhea and urinary incontinence, other gastrointestinal adverse events occurring during clinical trials with memantine, at rate >= 2% and higher than placebo include: constipation (5% memantine vs. 3% placebo) and nausea/vomiting (3 vs. 2%). It has been noted that the constipation effect may be dose-related in neuropathic pain trials where 20 and 40 mg/day doses have been studied. Xerostomia (dry mouth) has also been reported.Musculoskeletal effects seen during clinical trials with memantine, at a rate >= 2% and higher than placebo include: back pain (3% memantine vs. 2% placebo). Pain may be be a dose-related adverse effect.Other adverse events that have been reported in safety trials with memantine, at a rate >= 2%, but less than or equal to the placebo rate include: falls, inflicted injury, bronchitis, influenza-like symptoms, abnormal gait, depression, upper respiratory tract infection, edema and arthralgia.The following adverse events have been reported to be temporally associated with memantine treatment; however, there is inadequate data to evaluate causality: AV block, bone fractures, carpal tunnel syndrome, cerebral infarction, chest pain (unspecified), claudication, colitis, dyskinesia, dysphagia, gastritis, gastroesophageal reflux, grand mal seizures, intracranial bleeding, hepatic failure, hyperlipidemia, hypoglycemia, ileus, impotence (erectile dysfunction), malaise, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, acute pancreatitis, aspiration pneumonia, renal failure (unspecified), QT prolongation, restlessness, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, sudden death, supraventricular tachycardia (SVT), sinus tachycardia, tardive dyskinesia, and thrombocytopenia.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    rash, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis
    General Information
    Serious rash and Stevens-Johnson syndrome have been reported during postmarketing use of memantine. During safety evaluations of pre-approval clinical data, 2 reports of toxic epidermal necrolysis were identified. Causality of these events with memantine is uncertain.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      toxic epidermal necrolysis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      Stevens-Johnson syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    agitation, anxiety, confusion, depression, dizziness, drowsiness, fatigue, hallucinations, headache, irritability, suicidal ideation
    General Information
    During clinical trials with immediate-release or extended-release (XR) memantine in adults with Alzheimer's dementia, the following adverse central nervous system (CNS) effects occurred in at least 2% of memantine-treated adults and more frequently than with placebo: dizziness (5% to 7%), headache (6%), fatigue (2%), drowsiness (3%), confusion (6%), hallucinations (3%), anxiety (4%), depression (3%), and aggression (2%). Dizziness was the most common adverse effect resulting in discontinuation of treatment (1.5%) during clinical trials of extended-release memantine. Suicidal ideation has been reported during postmarketing use. In a placebo-controlled trial of pediatric patients 6 to 12 years of age with autism spectrum disorders receiving weight-based doses of extended-release memantine (3 to 15 mg/day), agitation was reported more frequently in the active treatment group (5.4%) than with placebo. Aggression and irritability resulted in discontinuation in 3.6% and 1.8% of pediatric patients, respectively. In an open-label phase pediatric study, irritability (5.4%) and headache (8%) were reported; irritability and aggression resulted in discontinuation in 1.2% and 1% of children, respectively.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      confusion
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hallucinations
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anxiety
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      depression
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      suicidal ideation
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      agitation
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      irritability
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    heart failure, hypertension, hypotension
    General Information
    During clinical trials with immediate-release or extended-release (XR) memantine in adults, the following adverse cardiac effects occurred in at least 2% of memantine-treated adults and more frequently than with placebo: hypertension (4%) and hypotension (2%). Congestive heart failure has been reported during postmarketing use.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      heart failure
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    cough, dyspnea, fever, influenza, pharyngitis, rhinorrhea
    General Information
    During clinical trials with immediate-release or extended-release (XR) memantine in adults, the following adverse respiratory effects occurred in at least 2% of Memantine recipients and more frequently than with placebo: cough (4%), influenza (4%), and dyspnea (2%). In a placebo-controlled trial of pediatric patients (6 to 12 years of age) with autism spectrum disorders receiving weight-based doses of extended-release memantine (3 to 15 mg/day), the following were reported more frequently in the active treatment group than the placebo group: cough (8.9%), influenza (7.1%), and rhinorrhea (5.4%). In the open-label pediatric continuation phase, naso-pharyngitis (6.3%) and fever (5.8%) were reported.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      influenza
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      rhinorrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      pharyngitis
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, pancreatitis, vomiting, weight gain
    General Information
    During clinical trials with immediate-release or extended-release (XR) memantine in adults, the following adverse gastrointestinal (GI) effects occurred in at least 2% of memantine-treated patients and more frequently than in patients receiving placebo: constipation (3% to 5%), diarrhea (5%), abdominal pain (2%), weight gain (3%), and vomiting (2% to 3%). Pancreatitis has been noted in postmarketing reports; however, the frequency is unknown and the causality of the drug has not been established.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pancreatitis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      weight gain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    back pain
    General Information
    Musculoskeletal effects seen during clinical trials with immediate-release or extended-release memantine in adults at a rate of at least 2% and more frequently than placebo include: back pain (3%) and unspecified pain (3%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      back pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    myoclonia, seizures
    General Information
    Memantine has not been formally studied in patients with a seizure disorder. During clinical trials with immediate-release memantine, seizures were reported in 0.2% of memantine-treated patients and 0.5% of those receiving placebo. During clinical trials with extended-release (XR) memantine, seizures were reported in 0.3% of memantine-treated patients and 0.6% of those receiving placebo.
    Headline
    renal failure (unspecified), urinary incontinence
    General Information
    During clinical trials with extended-release memantine in adults, urinary incontinence (2%) occurred more frequently than in patients receiving placebo. Acute renal failure (unspecified), increased serum creatinine, and renal insufficiency have been noted in postmarketing reports with memantine; however, the frequencies are unknown and causality to the drug has not been established.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      renal failure (unspecified)
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      urinary incontinence
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    agranulocytosis, leukopenia, neutropenia, pancytopenia, thrombocytopenia, thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura
    General Information
    Adverse hematologic effects that have been reported during postmarketing use of memantine in adults include agranulocytosis, leukopenia, neutropenia, pancytopenia, thrombocytopenia, and thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP). The frequencies are unknown and causality to the drug has not been established.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      agranulocytosis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      leukopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      pancytopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      neutropenia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    cholelithiasis, hepatic failure, hepatitis
    General Information
    Hepatitis has been reported during postmarketing use of memantine; however, the frequencies are unknown and causality to the drug has not been established.

Description
  Text
  Memantine is an N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist indicated for the symptomatic management of moderate to severe Alzheimer's disease both as monotherapy and in combination with donepezil, a cholinesterase inhibitor (ChEI). Small improvements in cognition and activities of daily living may be observed during treatment with ChEIs and memantine; however, the drugs do not prevent or delay progression of the disease. According to an effectiveness review from the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ), memantine may improve clinical impression of change but not function, and evidence is insufficient regarding cognition, other efficacy outcomes, and harms in adults with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease. In adults with moderate to severe Alzheimer's disease receiving cholinesterase inhibitors, memantine does not improve clinical impression of change, and evidence is insufficient for cognition, function, staging, and harms. Evidence is insufficient to determine the potential benefits and harms of using memantine to treat behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia (BPSD), including agitation, psychosis, aggression, or disinhibited sexual behavior. Memantine is not recommended for use in mild to moderate vascular dementia alone, but patients with mixed vascular dementia and Alzheimer's disease may experience a small cognitive benefit. Memantine produces global improvements in dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), but the pattern of cognitive and neuropsychiatric responsiveness is uncertain. Memantine is not effective for mild cognitive impairment (MCI) or frontotemporal dementia (FTD). Limited data suggest that memantine may be beneficial for the symptomatic treatment of acquired pendular nystagmus; however, further evaluation is required. Memantine was studied for, but failed to demonstrate efficacy, in 2 controlled trials of pediatric patients 6 to 12 years of age with autism spectrum disorders (ASD). Memantine is predominantly eliminated by the kidneys in part by tubular secretion. Certain comorbities or the use of selected drugs or foods that raise urine pH may decrease urinary elimination of memantine and increase plasma concentrations, potentially increasing the risk of adverse effects. Memantine was FDA-approved in October 2003.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Memantine is an antagonist at N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors with a low to moderate binding affinity. Persistent activation of central nervous system NMDA receptors by the excitatory amino acid glutamate has been theorized to contribute to the symptoms of Alzheimer's disease. Memantine is thought to exert its therapeutic effect by binding to the NMDA receptor-operated cation channels. There is no evidence that memantine slows or prevents neurodegenerative processes in Alzheimer's disease. High affinity NMDA antagonists, such as ketamine and dextromethorphan, are associated with excessive psychomimetic effects at dosages needed for dementia treatment and are therefore not practical alternatives. Memantine has negligible affinity for gamma-amino-butyric-acid (GABA), benzodiazepine, dopamine, adrenergic, histamine, and glycine receptors, and for voltage-dependent calcium, sodium, or potassium channels. Memantine appears to have antagonist activity at the 5-HT3 receptor, with similar potency to that of the NMDA receptor and partial affinity for nicotinic acetylcholine receptors with one-sixth to one-tenth the potency.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Memantine is rapidly and completely absorbed with 100% bioavailability. The pharmacokinetics of immediate-release (IR) memantine are linear in the range of 5 to 40 mg single oral doses. Peak concentrations of the IR and extended-release (ER) formulations occur in 3 to 7 hours and 9 to 12 hours, respectively. In a study comparing 28 mg/day of ER memantine to 10 mg twice daily of IR memantine, the Memantine ER had a Cmax and AUC that were 48% and 33% higher, respectively than with the IR formulation. Food does not alter the extent of absorption of the immediate-release (IR) or extended-release (ER) formulation. There is no difference in the systemic exposure of extended-release memantine between swallowing the capsule intact or sprinkling the contents on applesauce.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    In a small pharmacokinetic study (n = 16) evaluating single doses of memantine 20 mg in healthy patients compared to those with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class B, score 7 to 9), the elimination half-life increased by about 16% in the hepatic impairment group compared to the healthy subjects. No change in Cmax or AUC was apparent between the two groups. According to the manufacturer, no dosage adjustments of memantine are needed in patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment; however caution is advised when using the drug in those with severe hepatic impairment.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    In a pharmacokinetic study evaluating patients with renal impairment, the mean AUC increased by 4%, 60%, and 115% in subjects with mild, moderate, and severe renal impairment, respectively, compared to healthy subjects. The terminal elimination half-life increased by 18%, 41%, and 95% in subjects with mild, moderate, and severe renal impairment, respectively. According to the manufacturer, no dosage adjustment is recommended for patients with mild and moderate renal impairment; however, the dosage should be reduced in those with severe renal impairment.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Memantine pharmacokinetic parameters do not appear to be affected by age. In geriatric adults, renal impairment results in decreased clearance of memantine and increased AUC, corresponding with decreasing values of creatinine clearance (CrCl).
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    Following multiple doses of memantine 20 mg/day, females had approximately a 45% higher exposure than males, but no differences were noted after adjustments for body weight.
  Text
  Memantine is administered orally as an immediate-release tablet, extended-release capsule, and oral solution. Protein binding is low, at roughly 45%. The volume of distribution is 9 to 11 L/kg suggesting extensive distribution into tissues. Memantine rapidly crosses the blood brain barrier and is widely distributed throughout the body. The serum concentration of memantine is roughly double that found in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Memantine undergoes partial hepatic metabolism; however, the hepatic CYP450 system does not play a significant role in the metabolism of the drug. Renal clearance involves active tubular secretion moderated by pH dependent tubular reabsorption. Increases in urinary pH may decrease the elimination of memantine, resulting in drug accumulation and potential toxicity. The clearance of memantine is reduced by about 80% under alkaline urine conditions at pH 8. Alternatively, acidification of the urine may increase the elimination of memantine. Memantine has an elimination half-life of 60 to 80 hours. About 48% of the dose is excreted in urine as unchanged drug or as the sum of parent drug and the N-glucuronide conjugate (74%).
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: MATE1
In vitro data suggest that MATE1 has a role in the renal secretion of memantine. When in vitro cells were exposed to cimetidine, a MATE1 inhibitor, MATE1 memantine excretion was abolished.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Immediate-release Tablets
May administer with or without food.
 
Extended-release Capsules
May administer with or without food.
Do not chew, crush, or divide the capsule.
The capsule should be swallowed whole or opened and the entire contents sprinkled on applesauce before swallowing. The entire contents of the capsule should be consumed; the dose should not be divided.
      Name
      Oral Liquid Formulations
      Description
      Oral solution
Administer with the dosing device that comes with the product.  The packaging contains a syringe, syringe adapter cap, tubing, and other supplies needed to administer the drug. Instruct the patient or caregiver on the correct use of the oral dosing syringe.
Do not mix with any other liquid.
May administer with or without food.
Withdraw the correct volume of oral solution for the dose into the supplied syringe, and then slowly squirt the oral solution into the corner of the patient's mouth.
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Inform caregivers of the needed dose titration schedule.
Missed doses: If a single dose is missed, the dose should be skipped and the next dose should be taken as scheduled. Do not administer double or extra doses. If a patient fails to take memantine for several days, dosing may need to be resumed at lower doses and re-titrated.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    20 mg/day PO immediate-release formulations; 28 mg/day PO extended-release formulation.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    20 mg/day PO immediate-release formulations; 28 mg/day PO extended-release formulation.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  No dosage adjustments are required for patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment. Memantine should be administered with caution to patients with severe hepatic impairment.
  Renal Impairment
  CrCl 30 mL/minute or more: No dosage adjustment is needed.
CrCl 5 to 29 mL/minute: A target dose of 5 mg PO twice daily of immediate-release (IR) formulations is recommended. A target dose of 14 mg PO once daily of the extended-release (XR) form is recommended. If switching from the IR forms to XR, switch to memantine XR 14 mg PO once daily the day following the last dose of 5 mg memantine IR.
CrCl less than 5 mL/minute: No dosage recommendation is available; no specific hemodialysis information is available.
