=== Aficamten — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 5645)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Aficamten is a cardiac myosin inhibitor indicated for the treatment of adults with symptomatic hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy to improve functional capacity and symptoms.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 20 mg/day PO.

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Aficamten reduces cardiac contractility, which reduces left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) and may cause heart failure due to systolic dysfunction.

AFICAMTEN

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

MYQORZO

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of symptomatic hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy to improve functional capacity and symptoms

Oral dosage
Adults


5 mg PO once daily, initially. May increase dose by 5 mg increments every 2 to 8 weeks based on individual clinical status and echocardiographic assessment. Max: 20 mg/day. Once maintenance dose is established, perform echocardiographic assessment and adjust dose as necessary. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided, or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

cardiac arrhythmias, heart failure, infection


Aficamten reduces cardiac contractility, which reduces left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) and may cause heart failure due to systolic dysfunction. Echocardiogram assessments are required prior to, 2 to 8 weeks after initiation or dose adjustment, and during aficamten treatment to monitor for systolic dysfunction. Avoid initiation or up-titration of aficamten in individuals with a LVEF less than 55%. People receiving concomitant therapy with certain medications (e.g., fluconazole, fluvoxamine, voriconazole, and CYP2C9 inhibitors) or who experience a serious intercurrent illness (e.g., serious infection) or cardiac arrhythmias (e.g., new or uncontrolled atrial fibrillation) are at greater risk of developing systolic dysfunction and heart failure. Do not increase aficamten dose until resolution or stabilization of the intercurrent illness or new arrhythmia. Assess clinical status, LVEF, and Valsalva left ventricular outflow tract (LVOT) gradient regularly during aficamten therapy and adjust dose or interrupt therapy as necessary. Once a maintenance dose is established, assess LVEF and Valsalva LVOT gradient every 6 months or every 3 months in individuals with LVEF 50% to less than 55%. Consider additional monitoring in individuals with asymptomatic LVEF reduction, intercurrent illness, and arrhythmias. New or worsening arrhythmia, dyspnea, chest pain, fatigue, leg edema, or elevations in N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) may be signs or symptoms of heart failure.


pregnancy


It is not known whether aficamten may cause harm when administered during pregnancy. There are no human data on the use of aficamten during pregnancy to evaluate for a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. In animal studies involving pregnant rats, aficamten administration was associated with increases in external fetal malformations (kinked or bent tail) and reductions in offspring viability at exposures of at least 4 times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD). Additionally, aficamten administration to pregnant rats resulted in increases in post-implantation loss (early and late resorption) and decreases in mean fetal body weight in the presence of significant maternal toxicity at exposures 5 times the MRHD based on free AUC, with uncertain human relevance. No developmental effects or maternal toxicity were seen with a dose of 1.5 mg/kg/day, which corresponds to clinical exposure at the MRHD, or at 3 times the MRHD. Following administration to pregnant rabbits, there was an increase in post-implantation loss (late resorption) and fetal cardiac malformations at a dose of 10 mg/kg/day. Health care providers should report exposure if aficamten is administered during pregnancy, or if an individual becomes pregnant while taking aficamten or within 3 weeks after the last dose by contacting Cytokinetics, Inc. at 1-833-633-2986.


breast-feeding


Use aficamten with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of aficamten in human milk, the effects on the breast-fed infant, or the effects on milk production. Aficamten was detected in the plasma of rat pups when dams were dosed with the drug orally during the lactation period. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the individual's clinical need for treatment, and any potential adverse effects on the breast-fed child from the medication or from the underlying maternal medical condition.


Pregnancy And Lactation


It is not known whether aficamten may cause harm when administered during pregnancy. There are no human data on the use of aficamten during pregnancy to evaluate for a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. In animal studies involving pregnant rats, aficamten administration was associated with increases in external fetal malformations (kinked or bent tail) and reductions in offspring viability at exposures of at least 4 times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD). Additionally, aficamten administration to pregnant rats resulted in increases in post-implantation loss (early and late resorption) and decreases in mean fetal body weight in the presence of significant maternal toxicity at exposures 5 times the MRHD based on free AUC, with uncertain human relevance. No developmental effects or maternal toxicity were seen with a dose of 1.5 mg/kg/day, which corresponds to clinical exposure at the MRHD, or at 3 times the MRHD. Following administration to pregnant rabbits, there was an increase in post-implantation loss (late resorption) and fetal cardiac malformations at a dose of 10 mg/kg/day. Health care providers should report exposure if aficamten is administered during pregnancy, or if an individual becomes pregnant while taking aficamten or within 3 weeks after the last dose by contacting Cytokinetics, Inc. at 1-833-633-2986.


Interactions

Amobarbital: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in aficamten efficacy during concomitant use of aficamten and barbiturates; increase the aficamten dosage as appropriate based on response. If a barbiturate is discontinued, reduce the aficamten dosage by approximately half: 20 mg to 10 mg, 15 mg to 5 mg, 10 mg to 5 mg, or continue 5 mg. Concomitant use may decrease aficamten exposure. Aficamten is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced aficamten overall exposure by 51%.
Apalutamide: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in aficamten efficacy during concomitant use of aficamten and apalutamide; increase the aficamten dosage as appropriate based on response. If apalutamide is discontinued, reduce the aficamten dosage by approximately half: 20 mg to 10 mg, 15 mg to 5 mg, 10 mg to 5 mg, or continue 5 mg. Concomitant use may decrease aficamten exposure. Aficamten is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced aficamten overall exposure by 51%.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in aficamten efficacy during concomitant use of aficamten and barbiturates; increase the aficamten dosage as appropriate based on response. If a barbiturate is discontinued, reduce the aficamten dosage by approximately half: 20 mg to 10 mg, 15 mg to 5 mg, 10 mg to 5 mg, or continue 5 mg. Concomitant use may decrease aficamten exposure. Aficamten is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced aficamten overall exposure by 51%.
Barbiturates: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in aficamten efficacy during concomitant use of aficamten and barbiturates; increase the aficamten dosage as appropriate based on response. If a barbiturate is discontinued, reduce the aficamten dosage by approximately half: 20 mg to 10 mg, 15 mg to 5 mg, 10 mg to 5 mg, or continue 5 mg. Concomitant use may decrease aficamten exposure. Aficamten is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced aficamten overall exposure by 51%.
Bexarotene: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in aficamten efficacy during concomitant use of aficamten and bexarotene; increase the aficamten dosage as appropriate based on response. If bexarotene is discontinued, reduce the aficamten dosage by approximately half: 20 mg to 10 mg, 15 mg to 5 mg, 10 mg to 5 mg, or continue 5 mg. Concomitant use may decrease aficamten exposure. Aficamten is a CYP3A substrate and bexarotene is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Bosentan: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in aficamten efficacy during concomitant use of aficamten and bosentan; increase the aficamten dosage as appropriate based on response. If bosentan is discontinued, reduce the aficamten dosage by approximately half: 20 mg to 10 mg, 15 mg to 5 mg, 10 mg to 5 mg, or continue 5 mg. Concomitant use may decrease aficamten exposure. Aficamten is a CYP3A substrate and bosentan is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in aficamten efficacy during concomitant use of aficamten and barbiturates; increase the aficamten dosage as appropriate based on response. If a barbiturate is discontinued, reduce the aficamten dosage by approximately half: 20 mg to 10 mg, 15 mg to 5 mg, 10 mg to 5 mg, or continue 5 mg. Concomitant use may decrease aficamten exposure. Aficamten is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced aficamten overall exposure by 51%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in aficamten efficacy during concomitant use of aficamten and barbiturates; increase the aficamten dosage as appropriate based on response. If a barbiturate is discontinued, reduce the aficamten dosage by approximately half: 20 mg to 10 mg, 15 mg to 5 mg, 10 mg to 5 mg, or continue 5 mg. Concomitant use may decrease aficamten exposure. Aficamten is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced aficamten overall exposure by 51%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in aficamten efficacy during concomitant use of aficamten and barbiturates; increase the aficamten dosage as appropriate based on response. If a barbiturate is discontinued, reduce the aficamten dosage by approximately half: 20 mg to 10 mg, 15 mg to 5 mg, 10 mg to 5 mg, or continue 5 mg. Concomitant use may decrease aficamten exposure. Aficamten is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced aficamten overall exposure by 51%.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in aficamten efficacy during concomitant use of aficamten and barbiturates; increase the aficamten dosage as appropriate based on response. If a barbiturate is discontinued, reduce the aficamten dosage by approximately half: 20 mg to 10 mg, 15 mg to 5 mg, 10 mg to 5 mg, or continue 5 mg. Concomitant use may decrease aficamten exposure. Aficamten is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced aficamten overall exposure by 51%.
carBAMazepine: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in aficamten efficacy during concomitant use of aficamten and carbamazepine; increase the aficamten dosage as appropriate based on response. If carbamazepine is discontinued, reduce the aficamten dosage by approximately half: 20 mg to 10 mg, 15 mg to 5 mg, 10 mg to 5 mg, or continue 5 mg. Concomitant use may decrease aficamten exposure. Aficamten is a CYP3A substrate and carbamazepine is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use reduced aficamten overall exposure by 51%.
Cenobamate: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in aficamten efficacy during concomitant use of aficamten and cenobamate; increase the aficamten dosage as appropriate based on response. If cenobamate is discontinued, reduce the aficamten dosage by approximately half: 20 mg to 10 mg, 15 mg to 5 mg, 10 mg to 5 mg, or continue 5 mg. Concomitant use may decrease aficamten exposure. Aficamten is a CYP3A substrate and cenobamate is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Dabrafenib: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in aficamten efficacy during concomitant use of aficamten and dabrafenib; increase the aficamten dosage as appropriate based on response. If dabrafenib is discontinued, reduce the aficamten dosage by approximately half: 20 mg to 10 mg, 15 mg to 5 mg, 10 mg to 5 mg, or continue 5 mg. Concomitant use may decrease aficamten exposure. Aficamten is a CYP3A substrate and dabrafenib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Efavirenz: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in aficamten efficacy during concomitant use of aficamten and efavirenz; increase the aficamten dosage as appropriate based on response. If efavirenz is discontinued, reduce the aficamten dosage by approximately half: 20 mg to 10 mg, 15 mg to 5 mg, 10 mg to 5 mg, or continue 5 mg. Concomitant use may decrease aficamten exposure. Aficamten is a CYP3A substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in aficamten efficacy during concomitant use of aficamten and efavirenz; increase the aficamten dosage as appropriate based on response. If efavirenz is discontinued, reduce the aficamten dosage by approximately half: 20 mg to 10 mg, 15 mg to 5 mg, 10 mg to 5 mg, or continue 5 mg. Concomitant use may decrease aficamten exposure. Aficamten is a CYP3A substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in aficamten efficacy during concomitant use of aficamten and efavirenz; increase the aficamten dosage as appropriate based on response. If efavirenz is discontinued, reduce the aficamten dosage by approximately half: 20 mg to 10 mg, 15 mg to 5 mg, 10 mg to 5 mg, or continue 5 mg. Concomitant use may decrease aficamten exposure. Aficamten is a CYP3A substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Elagolix: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in aficamten efficacy during concomitant use of aficamten and elagolix; increase the aficamten dosage as appropriate based on response. If elagolix is discontinued, reduce the aficamten dosage by approximately half: 20 mg to 10 mg, 15 mg to 5 mg, 10 mg to 5 mg, or continue 5 mg. Concomitant use may decrease aficamten exposure. Aficamten is a CYP3A substrate and elagolix is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in aficamten efficacy during concomitant use of aficamten and elagolix; increase the aficamten dosage as appropriate based on response. If elagolix is discontinued, reduce the aficamten dosage by approximately half: 20 mg to 10 mg, 15 mg to 5 mg, 10 mg to 5 mg, or continue 5 mg. Concomitant use may decrease aficamten exposure. Aficamten is a CYP3A substrate and elagolix is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Encorafenib: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in aficamten efficacy during concomitant use of aficamten and encorafenib; increase the aficamten dosage as appropriate based on response. If encorafenib is discontinued, reduce the aficamten dosage by approximately half: 20 mg to 10 mg, 15 mg to 5 mg, 10 mg to 5 mg, or continue 5 mg. Concomitant use may decrease aficamten exposure. Aficamten is a CYP3A substrate and encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced aficamten overall exposure by 51%.
Enzalutamide: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in aficamten efficacy during concomitant use of aficamten and enzalutamide; increase the aficamten dosage as appropriate based on response. If enzalutamide is discontinued, reduce the aficamten dosage by approximately half: 20 mg to 10 mg, 15 mg to 5 mg, 10 mg to 5 mg, or continue 5 mg. Concomitant use may decrease aficamten exposure. Aficamten is a CYP3A substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced aficamten overall exposure by 51%.
Eslicarbazepine: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in aficamten efficacy during concomitant use of aficamten and eslicarbazepine; increase the aficamten dosage as appropriate based on response. If eslicarbazepine is discontinued, reduce the aficamten dosage by approximately half: 20 mg to 10 mg, 15 mg to 5 mg, 10 mg to 5 mg, or continue 5 mg. Concomitant use may decrease aficamten exposure. Aficamten is a CYP3A substrate and eslicarbazepine is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Etravirine: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in aficamten efficacy during concomitant use of aficamten and etravirine; increase the aficamten dosage as appropriate based on response. If etravirine is discontinued, reduce the aficamten dosage by approximately half: 20 mg to 10 mg, 15 mg to 5 mg, 10 mg to 5 mg, or continue 5 mg. Concomitant use may decrease aficamten exposure. Aficamten is a CYP3A substrate and etravirine is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Fexinidazole: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in aficamten efficacy during concomitant use of aficamten and fexinidazole; increase the aficamten dosage as appropriate based on response. If fexinidazole is discontinued, reduce the aficamten dosage by approximately half: 20 mg to 10 mg, 15 mg to 5 mg, 10 mg to 5 mg, or continue 5 mg. Concomitant use may decrease aficamten exposure. Aficamten is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Fluconazole: (Major) Recommendations for managing aficamten with fluconazole vary by aficamten dosage: avoid use in patients receiving 5 mg or 10 mg of aficamten, decrease the aficamten dosage from 20 mg or 15 mg to 5 mg. Concomitant use may increase aficamten exposure and the risk for heart failure due to systolic dysfunction and other aficamten-related adverse effects. Aficamten is a CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP3A substrate and fluconazole is a moderate CYP2C9, strong CYP2C19, and moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use increased aficamten overall exposure by 3.78-fold.
fluvoxaMINE: (Major) Decrease the aficamten dosage by approximately half in patients receiving fluvoxamine: from 20 mg to 10 mg, 15 mg to 5 mg, 10 mg to 5 mg, or continue 5 mg. Concomitant use may increase aficamten exposure and the risk for heart failure due to systolic dysfunction and other aficamten-related adverse effects. Aficamten is a CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, and CYP3A substrate and fluvoxamine is a weak CYP2C9, strong CYP2C19, weak CYP2D6, and moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use is predicted to increase aficamten overall exposure by 2.16-fold.
Fosphenytoin: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in aficamten efficacy during concomitant use of aficamten and phenytoin; increase the aficamten dosage as appropriate based on response. If phenytoin is discontinued, reduce the aficamten dosage by approximately half: 20 mg to 10 mg, 15 mg to 5 mg, 10 mg to 5 mg, or continue 5 mg. Concomitant use may decrease aficamten exposure. Aficamten is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced aficamten overall exposure by 51%.
Lorlatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in aficamten efficacy during concomitant use of aficamten and lorlatinib; increase the aficamten dosage as appropriate based on response. If lorlatinib is discontinued, reduce the aficamten dosage by approximately half: 20 mg to 10 mg, 15 mg to 5 mg, 10 mg to 5 mg, or continue 5 mg. Concomitant use may decrease aficamten exposure. Aficamten is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in aficamten efficacy during concomitant use of aficamten and lumacaftor; ivacaftor; increase the aficamten dosage as appropriate based on response. If lumacaftor; ivacaftor is discontinued, reduce the aficamten dosage by approximately half: 20 mg to 10 mg, 15 mg to 5 mg, 10 mg to 5 mg, or continue 5 mg. Concomitant use may decrease aficamten exposure. Aficamten is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced aficamten overall exposure by 51%.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in aficamten efficacy during concomitant use of aficamten and lumacaftor; ivacaftor; increase the aficamten dosage as appropriate based on response. If lumacaftor; ivacaftor is discontinued, reduce the aficamten dosage by approximately half: 20 mg to 10 mg, 15 mg to 5 mg, 10 mg to 5 mg, or continue 5 mg. Concomitant use may decrease aficamten exposure. Aficamten is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced aficamten overall exposure by 51%.
Methohexital: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in aficamten efficacy during concomitant use of aficamten and barbiturates; increase the aficamten dosage as appropriate based on response. If a barbiturate is discontinued, reduce the aficamten dosage by approximately half: 20 mg to 10 mg, 15 mg to 5 mg, 10 mg to 5 mg, or continue 5 mg. Concomitant use may decrease aficamten exposure. Aficamten is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced aficamten overall exposure by 51%.
Mitotane: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in aficamten efficacy during concomitant use of aficamten and mitotane; increase the aficamten dosage as appropriate based on response. If mitotane is discontinued, reduce the aficamten dosage by approximately half: 20 mg to 10 mg, 15 mg to 5 mg, 10 mg to 5 mg, or continue 5 mg. Concomitant use may decrease aficamten exposure. Aficamten is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced aficamten overall exposure by 51%.
Nafcillin: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in aficamten efficacy during concomitant use of aficamten and nafcillin; increase the aficamten dosage as appropriate based on response. If nafcillin is discontinued, reduce the aficamten dosage by approximately half: 20 mg to 10 mg, 15 mg to 5 mg, 10 mg to 5 mg, or continue 5 mg. Concomitant use may decrease aficamten exposure. Aficamten is a CYP3A substrate and nafcillin is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in aficamten efficacy during concomitant use of aficamten and rifabutin; increase the aficamten dosage as appropriate based on response. If rifabutin is discontinued, reduce the aficamten dosage by approximately half: 20 mg to 10 mg, 15 mg to 5 mg, 10 mg to 5 mg, or continue 5 mg. Concomitant use may decrease aficamten exposure. Aficamten is a CYP3A substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Pacritinib: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in aficamten efficacy during concomitant use of aficamten and pacritinib; increase the aficamten dosage as appropriate based on response. If pacritinib is discontinued, reduce the aficamten dosage by approximately half: 20 mg to 10 mg, 15 mg to 5 mg, 10 mg to 5 mg, or continue 5 mg. Concomitant use may decrease aficamten exposure. Aficamten is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
PENTobarbital: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in aficamten efficacy during concomitant use of aficamten and barbiturates; increase the aficamten dosage as appropriate based on response. If a barbiturate is discontinued, reduce the aficamten dosage by approximately half: 20 mg to 10 mg, 15 mg to 5 mg, 10 mg to 5 mg, or continue 5 mg. Concomitant use may decrease aficamten exposure. Aficamten is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced aficamten overall exposure by 51%.
Pexidartinib: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in aficamten efficacy during concomitant use of aficamten and pexidartinib; increase the aficamten dosage as appropriate based on response. If pexidartinib is discontinued, reduce the aficamten dosage by approximately half: 20 mg to 10 mg, 15 mg to 5 mg, 10 mg to 5 mg, or continue 5 mg. Concomitant use may decrease aficamten exposure. Aficamten is a CYP3A substrate and pexidartinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
PHENobarbital: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in aficamten efficacy during concomitant use of aficamten and barbiturates; increase the aficamten dosage as appropriate based on response. If a barbiturate is discontinued, reduce the aficamten dosage by approximately half: 20 mg to 10 mg, 15 mg to 5 mg, 10 mg to 5 mg, or continue 5 mg. Concomitant use may decrease aficamten exposure. Aficamten is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced aficamten overall exposure by 51%.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in aficamten efficacy during concomitant use of aficamten and barbiturates; increase the aficamten dosage as appropriate based on response. If a barbiturate is discontinued, reduce the aficamten dosage by approximately half: 20 mg to 10 mg, 15 mg to 5 mg, 10 mg to 5 mg, or continue 5 mg. Concomitant use may decrease aficamten exposure. Aficamten is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced aficamten overall exposure by 51%.
Phenytoin: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in aficamten efficacy during concomitant use of aficamten and phenytoin; increase the aficamten dosage as appropriate based on response. If phenytoin is discontinued, reduce the aficamten dosage by approximately half: 20 mg to 10 mg, 15 mg to 5 mg, 10 mg to 5 mg, or continue 5 mg. Concomitant use may decrease aficamten exposure. Aficamten is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced aficamten overall exposure by 51%.
Primidone: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in aficamten efficacy during concomitant use of aficamten and barbiturates; increase the aficamten dosage as appropriate based on response. If a barbiturate is discontinued, reduce the aficamten dosage by approximately half: 20 mg to 10 mg, 15 mg to 5 mg, 10 mg to 5 mg, or continue 5 mg. Concomitant use may decrease aficamten exposure. Aficamten is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced aficamten overall exposure by 51%.
Repotrectinib: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in aficamten efficacy during concomitant use of aficamten and repotrectinib; increase the aficamten dosage as appropriate based on response. If repotrectinib is discontinued, reduce the aficamten dosage by approximately half: 20 mg to 10 mg, 15 mg to 5 mg, 10 mg to 5 mg, or continue 5 mg. Concomitant use may decrease aficamten exposure. Aficamten is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Rifabutin: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in aficamten efficacy during concomitant use of aficamten and rifabutin; increase the aficamten dosage as appropriate based on response. If rifabutin is discontinued, reduce the aficamten dosage by approximately half: 20 mg to 10 mg, 15 mg to 5 mg, 10 mg to 5 mg, or continue 5 mg. Concomitant use may decrease aficamten exposure. Aficamten is a CYP3A substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
rifAMPin: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of aficamten and rifampin is contraindicated. Concomitant use may decrease aficamten exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Aficamten is a CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP3A substrate and rifampin is a moderate CYP2C9, strong CYP2C19, and strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use is predicted to decrease aficamten overall exposure by 79%.
Rifapentine: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in aficamten efficacy during concomitant use of aficamten and rifapentine; increase the aficamten dosage as appropriate based on response. If rifapentine is discontinued, reduce the aficamten dosage by approximately half: 20 mg to 10 mg, 15 mg to 5 mg, 10 mg to 5 mg, or continue 5 mg. Concomitant use may decrease aficamten exposure. Aficamten is a CYP3A substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced aficamten overall exposure by 51%.
Secobarbital: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in aficamten efficacy during concomitant use of aficamten and barbiturates; increase the aficamten dosage as appropriate based on response. If a barbiturate is discontinued, reduce the aficamten dosage by approximately half: 20 mg to 10 mg, 15 mg to 5 mg, 10 mg to 5 mg, or continue 5 mg. Concomitant use may decrease aficamten exposure. Aficamten is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced aficamten overall exposure by 51%.
Sotorasib: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in aficamten efficacy during concomitant use of aficamten and sotorasib; increase the aficamten dosage as appropriate based on response. If sotorasib is discontinued, reduce the aficamten dosage by approximately half: 20 mg to 10 mg, 15 mg to 5 mg, 10 mg to 5 mg, or continue 5 mg. Concomitant use may decrease aficamten exposure. Aficamten is a CYP3A substrate and sotorasib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in aficamten efficacy during concomitant use of aficamten and St. John's wort; increase the aficamten dosage as appropriate based on response. If St. John's wort is discontinued, reduce the aficamten dosage by approximately half: 20 mg to 10 mg, 15 mg to 5 mg, 10 mg to 5 mg, or continue 5 mg. Concomitant use may decrease aficamten exposure. Aficamten is a CYP3A substrate and St. John's wort is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced aficamten overall exposure by 51%.
Voriconazole: (Major) Recommendations for managing aficamten with voriconazole vary by aficamten dosage: avoid use in patients receiving 5 mg or 10 mg of aficamten, decrease the aficamten dosage from 20 mg or 15 mg to 5 mg. Concomitant use may increase aficamten exposure and the risk for heart failure due to systolic dysfunction and other aficamten-related adverse effects. Aficamten is a CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP3A substrate and voriconazole is a weak CYP2C9, moderate CYP2C19, and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use is predicted to increase aficamten overall exposure by 1.94-fold.


Adverse Reaction
hypertension


Hypertension occurred in 8% of aficamten-treated subjects compared to 2% of placebo-treated subjects during the SEQUOIA-HCM clinical trial. The mean change in systolic blood pressure (SBP) and diastolic blood pressure from baseline to week 24 was 2 +/- 13 mmHg and 3 +/- 8 mmHg, respectively, in the aficamten group compared to -3 +/-14 mmHg and -1 +/-9 mmHg, respectively, in the placebo group. Approximately 16% of subjects in the aficamten group and 8% of subjects in the placebo group had an observed SBP more than 160 mmHg. The mean SBP/DBP was similar between the aficamten group and the placebo group four weeks after the end of therapy. Aficamten-associated increases in blood pressure are consistent with relief of left ventricular outflow tract (LVOT) obstruction and improved cardiac output.


heart failure


Aficamten reduces cardiac contractility and may cause heart failure due to systolic dysfunction. In the SEQUOIA-HCM clinical trial, the least square (LS) mean (SE) change from baseline in left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) was -7% (0.6) in subjects treated with aficamten and -2% (0.6) in subjects receiving placebo at the end of the 24-week treatment period. Four weeks after the end of treatment, the mean LVEF was similar between the treatment and placebo groups. During the 24-week treatment period, 5 (4%) subjects receiving aficamten and 1 (1%) of subjects receiving placebo experienced a reversible reduction in LVEF to less than 50%. For the 5 aficamten-treated subjects who experienced a reduction in LVEF to less than 50%, the median LVEF was 47% with a range of 34% to 49%. Reductions in LVEF to less than 50% did not require treatment interruption and were not associated with clinical heart failure. Echocardiogram assessments are required prior to and during aficamten therapy. Dose adjustments or interruption in therapy may be necessary based on LVEF and Valsalva left ventricular outflow tract (LVOT) gradient or drug interactions. Interrupt treatment if LVEF is less than 40% or if an individual experiences heart failure symptoms or worsening clinical status while taking aficamten and promptly evaluate cardiac function. Signs and symptoms of heart failure include new or worsening arrhythmia, dyspnea, chest pain, fatigue, leg edema, or elevations in N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP).


Description

Aficamten is a cardiac myosin inhibitor indicated for the treatment of adults with symptomatic hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy to improve functional capacity and symptoms. Aficamten reduces left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) and can cause heart failure due to systolic dysfunction. Regular left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) and Valsalva left ventricular outflow tract (LVOT) gradient assessment is required for careful titration to achieve an appropriate target Valsalva LVOT gradient, while maintaining LVEF of 50% or more and avoiding heart failure symptoms. Aficamten was FDA-approved in December 2025.

Mechanism Of Action

Aficamten is an allosteric and reversible inhibitor selective for cardiac myosin. Aficamten reduces the force generated by myosin at the cardiac sarcomere, which contributes to the pathophysiology of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM). In individuals with HCM, myosin inhibition with aficamten reduces cardiac contractility and left ventricular outflow tract (LVOT) obstruction.
 
 
Pharmacodynamics:
Left ventricular ejection fraction and left ventricular outflow tract (LVOT) obstruction:
In the SEQUOIA-HCM clinical trial, reductions in LVOT gradient were observed 2 weeks after initiating treatment and continued to decrease through week 8; the reduction in LVOT gradient was sustained through the remainder of the 24 week trial. At week 24, the mean (SD) change from baseline in resting and Valsalva LVOT gradient was -35 (29) mmHg and -48 (37) mmHg, respectively, for the aficamten-treatment group and 4 (35) mmHg and 2 (35) mmHg, respectively, for the placebo-treatment group. The reduction in LVOT-G was accompanied by a greater decrease in LVEF in individuals receiving aficamten compared to those receiving placebo with a mean change from baseline in LVEF of -7% and -2%, respectively. LVEF and Valsalva LVOT-G returned to baseline four weeks after discontinuation of aficamten treatment.
 
Cardiac Structure
In the 24-week SEQUOIA-HCM clinical trial, the mean (SD) maximal left ventricular wall thickness decreased by 0.2 (0.3) cm in the aficamten group compared to 0.1 (0.3) cm in the placebo group. In addition, the left ventricular mass index (LVMI) and left atrial volume index (LAVI) decreased by 5.3 (24) g/m2 and 2.6 (8) mL/m2, respectively, in the aficamten group, but increased by 5.8 (25) g/m2 and 1.4 (8) mL/m2, respectively, in the placebo group. The clinical significance of these findings is unknown.
 
Cardiac Biomarkers
In the SEQUOIA-HCM clinical trial, reductions in N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) were observed in the aficamten treatment group beginning at week 2 and were sustained through week 24. The NT-proBNP was 80% lower with aficamten compared to placebo (proportion of geometric mean ratio between aficamten and placebo, 0.2 [95% CI: 0.17, 0.23]) at week 24 and troponin I was 40% lower with aficamten compared to placebo (proportion of geometric mean ratio between the 2 groups, 0.57 [95% CI: 0.51, 0.64]) at weeks 12 and 24. The clinical significance of the NT-proBNP and troponin findings is unknown.

Pharmacokinetics

Aficamten is administered orally. The plasma protein binding of aficamten is about 90% and the volume of distribution is 313 L. Aficamten has a blood-to-plasma ratio of 0.94. Aficamten is extensively metabolized, primarily through CYP2C9, with contributions by CYP3A, CYP2D6, and CYP2C19 to two pharmacologically inactive metabolites, CK-3834282 and CK-3834283, which circulate at approximately 56% and 103% of aficamten in plasma, respectively. After a single 20 mg radiolabeled aficamten dose, 32% is excreted in the urine (0.06%, unchanged) and 58% (5.1%, unchanged) is excreted in the feces. Aficamten has a median terminal half-life of approximately 80 hours. At steady-state, the peak-to-trough plasma concentration ratio with once daily dosing is approximately 1.2. Total aficamten clearance is 2.6 L/hour and renal clearance accounts for less than 0.1% of total clearance.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP3A, P-gp
Aficamten is a CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP 2D6, and CYP3A substrate. Coadministration with medications that inhibit multiple cytochrome P450 pathways of aficamten elimination, strong CYP2C9 inhibitors, and moderate-to-strong CYP3A inducers of CYP3A may affect aficamten exposure. Concomitant administration of a single aficamten 20 mg dose increased dabigatran, a P-gp substrate, mean AUCinf by 26%.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route

The bioavailability of aficamten following oral administration is unknown. Aficamten undergoes rapid absorption and has a median Tmax of 1.5 to 2 hours. Aficamten exposure increases in a dose proportional manner following either single doses of 1 to 75 mg or multiple once daily doses of 5 to 20 mg. Administration of aficamten with a high fat, high calorie meal did not have a clinically significant effect on the AUC and Cmax.

Hepatic Impairment

No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of aficamten were observed with mild to moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Classes A and B). The effects of severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class C) are unknown.

Renal Impairment

No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of aficamten were observed based on mild to moderate renal impairment (eGFR 30 mL/minute or more, normalized by body surface area and based on the modification of diet in renal disease (MDRD) equation). The effects of severe (eGFR less than 30 mL/minute) renal impairment are unknown.

Geriatric

No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of aficamten were observed based on age (range 18 to 83 years).

Gender Differences

There are small differences in aficamten exposure between male and female subjects. Female subjects have demonstrated a 31% higher mean AUC compared to male subjects; however, these differences are not clinically significant.

Ethnic Differences

No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of aficamten were observed based on race.

Obesity

Small differences in aficamten exposure have been observed between individuals in the highest and lowest body weight quartiles. Subjects in the highest body weight quartile (median weight: 105 kg) demonstrated a 34% lower mean AUC compared to subjects in the lowest body weight quartile (median weight: 64 kg); however, these differences are not clinically significant.

Other

CYP2C9 Poor Metabolizers
The impact of CYP2C9 genetic variants on the pharmacokinetics of aficamten has not been directly evaluated; however, a similar effect on aficamten exposure as seen with coadministration of strong CYP2C9 inhibitors is expected. No additional dosage adjustments are needed in individuals who are CYP2C9 poor metabolizers, as the aficamten dosage titration and modifications account for CYP2C9 metabolizer status.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Oral Administration


Swallow tablets whole.
Administer with or without meals at about the same time every day.
Missed dose: Administer a missed dose as soon as possible on the same day. Then administer the next scheduled dose at the usual time the following day. Do not administer 2 doses on the same day.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

20 mg/day PO.

Geriatric

20 mg/day PO.

Adolescents

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Children

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

MYQORZO 10mg Tablet

MYQORZO 15mg Tablet

MYQORZO 20mg Tablet

MYQORZO 5mg Tablet

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

Renal Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

© 2026 Elsevier