=== Argatroban — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 670)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Argatroban is an intravenous direct thrombin inhibitor indicated for thrombosis prophylaxis or treatment in patients with heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) and as an anticoagulant in patients with or at risk of HIT undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI).

Routes: injection (IV/IM/SC); Common adult doses: Measure INR daily while argatroban and warfarin are coadministered. In general, with doses of argatroban up to 2 mcg/kg/minute, argatroban can be discontinued when the INR is more than 4 on combined therapy. After argatroban is discontinued, repeat the INR...

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): bleeding, gi bleeding, hematemesis, hematoma, hematuria, hemoptysis, intracranial bleeding, retroperitoneal bleeding, anaphylactoid reactions, bullous rash, cough, dyspnea, peripheral vasodilation, rash, gastroesophageal reflux, atrial fibrillation, bradycardia, cardiac arrest, myocardial infarction, ventricular tachycardia, back pain, chest pain (unspecified), fever, headache, hypotension

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Argatroban is contraindicated in individuals with major bleeding.

ARGATROBAN

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Argatroban

Indication Specific Dosing

For use as an anticoagulant in the treatment of thrombosis (i.e., deep venous thrombosis (DVT), pulmonary embolism) or for venous thromboembolism (VTE) prophylaxis (i.e., deep venous thrombosis (DVT) prophylaxis, pulmonary embolism prophylaxis) in patients with heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT)

For conversion to oral anticoagulant therapy in patients receiving argatroban
Intravenous dosage (argatroban at doses up to 2 mcg/kg/minute with warfarin)
Adults


Measure INR daily while argatroban and warfarin are coadministered. In general, with doses of argatroban up to 2 mcg/kg/minute, argatroban can be discontinued when the INR is more than 4 on combined therapy. After argatroban is discontinued, repeat the INR measurement in 4 to 6 hours. If the repeat INR is below the desired therapeutic range, resume the infusion of argatroban and repeat the process daily until the desired therapeutic range on warfarin alone is reached. Clinical practice guidelines recommend allowing the platelet count to substantially recover (i.e., 150 x 109/L or more) before initiating warfarin; the initial warfarin dose should not exceed 5 mg/day. Overlap argatroban with warfarin for at least 5 days and until the INR is within the desired range.


Intravenous dosage (argatroban at doses greater than 2 mcg/kg/minute with warfarin)
Adults


The relationship of INR on warfarin alone to the INR on warfarin plus argatroban is less predictable for argatroban doses more than 2 mcg/kg/minute. In order to predict the INR on warfarin alone, temporarily reduce the argatroban dose to 2 mcg/kg/minute. Repeat the INR 4 to 6 hours after reduction of the argatroban dose. In general, with doses of argatroban up to 2 mcg/kg/minute, argatroban can be discontinued when the INR is more than 4 on combined therapy. After argatroban is discontinued, repeat the INR measurement in 4 to 6 hours. If the repeat INR is below the desired therapeutic range, resume the infusion of argatroban and repeat the process daily until the desired therapeutic range on warfarin alone is reached. Clinical practice guidelines recommend allowing the platelet count to substantially recover (i.e., 150 x 109/L or more) before initiating warfarin; the initial warfarin dose should not exceed 5 mg/day. Overlap argatroban with warfarin for at least 5 days and until the INR is within the desired range.


Intravenous dosage
Adults


2 mcg/kg/minute continuous IV infusion. Clinical practice guidelines recommend 0.5 to 1.2 mcg/kg/minute for patients with heart failure, multiple organ system failure, severe anasarca, or those who are post-cardiac surgery. Steady-state anticoagulant effects (including the aPTT) are typically attained within 1 to 3 hours. The steady-state aPTT should be 1.5 to 3 times the initial baseline value (not to exceed 100 seconds). Monitor aPTT 2 hours after initiation of therapy to confirm that the aPTT is within the desired therapeutic range. Dose adjustments (not to exceed 10 mcg/kg/minute) may be required to attain the target aPTT. In clinical studies, doses have ranged from 15 to 25 mg/hour continuous IV infusion. Adjustments in dose were based on maintaining an activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) of 1.5 to 2.5 times control and/or a plasma argatroban concentration of approximately 2 mcg/mL. Clinical practice guidelines recommend use of nonheparin anticoagulants, including argatroban, over further use of heparin, low-molecular weight heparin, or vitamin K antagonist. Argatroban is preferred over other nonheparin anticoagulants in patients with renal insufficiency.


Infants†, Children†, and Adolescents†


Safety and efficacy have not been established. Pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic models suggest an initial infusion rate of 0.75 mcg/kg/minute IV may have comparable aPTT responses to a standard adult initiation rate (2 mcg/kg/minute), based on a goal aPTT of 1.5 to 3 times the baseline value and avoidance of an aPTT more than 100 seconds. Based on aPTT evaluation every 2 hours, increasing the infusion rate by 0.1 to 0.25 mcg/kg/minute could achieve additional aPTT responses. However, this dosing regimen has not been adequately assessed and did not take into account multiple factors (e.g., current aPTT, target aPTT, clinical status).


For coronary artery thrombosis prophylaxis or treatment during percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) in patients who have or who are at risk of developing heparin-induced thrombocytopenia

Intravenous dosage
Adults


350 mcg/kg IV bolus over 3 to 5 minutes then 25 mcg/kg/minute continuous IV infusion. Activated clotting time (ACT) should be measured 5 to 10 minutes later. The procedure may proceed if the ACT is more than 300 seconds. If the ACT is less than 300 seconds, an additional 150 mcg/kg IV bolus should be administered, the infusion rate increased to 30 mcg/kg/minute, and the ACT repeated 5 to 10 minutes later. If the ACT is more than 450 seconds, the infusion rate should be decreased to 15 mcg/kg/minute, and the ACT repeated 5 to 10 minutes later. Once a therapeutic ACT (between 300 to 450 seconds) has been achieved, this infusion rate should be continued for the duration of the procedure. In case of dissection, impending abrupt closure, thrombus formation during the procedure, or inability to achieve or maintain an ACT more than 300 seconds, additional bolus doses of 150 mcg/kg may be administered and the infusion rate increased to 40 mcg/kg/minute. The ACT should be monitored after each additional bolus, change in infusion rate, and at the end of the procedure. In addition, during prolonged procedures, monitor ACT every 20 to 30 minutes. If a patient requires continued anticoagulation after completion of the procedure, argatroban may be continued at 2 mcg/kg/minute and adjusted as needed to maintain desired aPTT. Clinical practice guidelines recommend argatroban or bivalirudin over other nonheparin anticoagulants in patients with heparin-induced thrombocytopenia who require percutaneous coronary intervention.


For the treatment of acute myocardial infarction, STEMI† as an adjunct to thrombolytic agents

Intravenous dosage
Adults


100 mcg/kg IV bolus followed by either low-dose (1 mcg/kg/minute continuous IV infusion) or high-dose (3 mcg/kg/minute continuous IV infusion) argatroban was compared to heparin 70 units/kg IV bolus followed by 15 units/kg/hour continuous IV infusion; argatroban or heparin were administered as adjunctive therapy to alteplase and adjusted to maintain an aPTT of 50 to 70 seconds after the first 6 hours. Patients continued heparin or argatroban for 48 to 72 hours or until angioplasty, at which point patients receiving argatroban were switched to heparin. TIMI grade 3 blood flow at 90 minutes trended towards improvement with argatroban; however, these differences were not statistically different. Bleeding rates were lower, but not significantly, in patients receiving argatroban (10% for heparin vs. 2.6% for low-dose argatroban and 4.3% for high-dose argatroban).


For the treatment of disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC)†

Intravenous dosage
Adults


0.7 mcg/kg/minute continuous IV infusion with response to therapy defined as an increase in platelet count to more than 120,000 platelets/mm3, a decrease in fibrin or fibrinogen degradation products to less than 20 mcg/mL, and no significant decrease in antithrombin III concentrations.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

bleeding disorder, gastrointestinal lesion, hypertension, lumbar puncture, major bleeding, major surgery, spinal anesthesia


Argatroban is contraindicated in individuals with major bleeding. The risk of hemorrhage with argatroban may be increased in individuals with a bleeding disorder, gastrointestinal lesion such as an ulceration, severe hypertension, or immediately after lumbar puncture, spinal anesthesia, or major surgery (particularly involving the brain, spinal cord, or eye).


hepatic disease


Start with a lower dose and titrate argatroban carefully in individuals with moderate or severe hepatic impairment (based on Child-Pugh classification). Steady-state aPTT concentrations may take longer to achieve and require more frequent dosage adjustments in individuals with hepatic impairment compared to individuals with normal hepatic function. Upon argatroban discontinuation in an individual with hepatic impairment, full reversal of anticoagulant effects may take longer than 4 hours due to decreased clearance and increased elimination half-life. Avoid high doses of argatroban in individuals undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) who have clinically significant hepatic disease or alanine aminotransferase (ALT)/aspartate aminotransferase (AST) concentrations 3 times or more the upper limit of normal.


labor, obstetric delivery, pregnancy


Limited data from postmarketing reports and published literature do not suggest a drug-associated risk of adverse fetal developmental outcomes if argatroban is used during pregnancy. In animal reproduction studies with argatroban doses up to 0.2 and 0.3 times the maximum recommended human dose (based on body surface area), there was no evidence of adverse developmental outcomes. If argatroban is used, monitor pregnant individuals for evidence of excessive bleeding or unexpected changes in coagulation parameters during labor and obstetric delivery.


neonates and infants exposed to this medication in utero


Monitor neonates and infants exposed to this medication in utero for bleeding. Argatroban may increase the risk of bleeding.


breast-feeding


Use argatroban with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of argatroban in human milk or its effects on milk production. Argatroban is present in the milk of lactating rats. Due to a lack of data, an alternative agent such as warfarin, is preferred. Consider the developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding along with the clinical need for argatroban and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from the medication or the patient's underlying condition.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Limited data from postmarketing reports and published literature do not suggest a drug-associated risk of adverse fetal developmental outcomes if argatroban is used during pregnancy. In animal reproduction studies with argatroban doses up to 0.2 and 0.3 times the maximum recommended human dose (based on body surface area), there was no evidence of adverse developmental outcomes. If argatroban is used, monitor pregnant individuals for evidence of excessive bleeding or unexpected changes in coagulation parameters during labor and obstetric delivery.


Interactions

Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving salicylates (e.g., aspirin) in combination with thrombin inhibitors. In addition, large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may also increase bleeding risk when given with argatroban because of their potential to cause GI bleeding or inhibit platelet aggregation.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving salicylates (e.g., aspirin) in combination with thrombin inhibitors. In addition, large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may also increase bleeding risk when given with argatroban because of their potential to cause GI bleeding or inhibit platelet aggregation.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving salicylates (e.g., aspirin) in combination with thrombin inhibitors. In addition, large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may also increase bleeding risk when given with argatroban because of their potential to cause GI bleeding or inhibit platelet aggregation.
Acetaminophen; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Ado-Trastuzumab emtansine: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of anticoagulants with ado-trastuzumab emtansine is necessary due to reports of severe and sometimes fatal hemorrhage, including intracranial bleeding, with ado-trastuzumab emtansine therapy. Consider additional monitoring when concomitant use is medically necessary. While some patients who experienced bleeding during ado-trastuzumab therapy were also receiving anticoagulation therapy, others had no known additional risk factors.
Alteplase: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and thrombin inhibitors is necessary. For acute ischemic stroke, avoid the use of thrombolytics in patients receiving thrombin inhibitors and consider delaying the initiation of thrombin inhibitor therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Thrombolytics may still be considered in some patients, such as those with an anticoagulation test available demonstrating that they are not therapeutically anticoagulated, based on their overall risk profile. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Aminosalicylate sodium, Aminosalicylic acid: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving salicylates (e.g., aspirin) in combination with thrombin inhibitors. In addition, large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may also increase bleeding risk when given with argatroban because of their potential to cause GI bleeding or inhibit platelet aggregation.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Anagrelide: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., clopidogrel, platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors, ticlopidine, etc.) in combination with argatroban.
Antiamyloid-beta immunotherapy: (Major) Avoid the use of amyloid-beta monoclonal antibody directed therapy in patients that require therapeutic anticoagulation. Anticoagulation may increase the risk for intracerebral hemorrhage especially in patients that develop other amyloid related imaging abnormalities (ARIA) while on antiamyloid-beta immunotherapy.
Antithrombin III: (Major) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving argatroban and antithrombin III (AT III) concomitantly. In addition, the half-life of AT III may be altered during concomitant administration with anticoagulants. Coagulation tests (aPTT and anti-Factor Xa, when appropriate) should be performed regularly and especially in the first hours following the start or withdrawal of AT III therapy to ensure appropriate anticoagulation.
Apixaban: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of apixaban and thrombin inhibitors due to the increased risk for bleeding. Short-term overlaps in anticoagulation therapy may be necessary for patients transitioning from one anticoagulant to another. Monitor patients closely and promptly evaluate any signs or symptoms of bleeding if the use of multiple anticoagulants is necessary.
Aspirin, ASA: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving salicylates (e.g., aspirin) in combination with thrombin inhibitors. In addition, large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may also increase bleeding risk when given with argatroban because of their potential to cause GI bleeding or inhibit platelet aggregation.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving salicylates (e.g., aspirin) in combination with thrombin inhibitors. In addition, large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may also increase bleeding risk when given with argatroban because of their potential to cause GI bleeding or inhibit platelet aggregation.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving salicylates (e.g., aspirin) in combination with thrombin inhibitors. In addition, large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may also increase bleeding risk when given with argatroban because of their potential to cause GI bleeding or inhibit platelet aggregation.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving salicylates (e.g., aspirin) in combination with thrombin inhibitors. In addition, large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may also increase bleeding risk when given with argatroban because of their potential to cause GI bleeding or inhibit platelet aggregation.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving salicylates (e.g., aspirin) in combination with thrombin inhibitors. In addition, large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may also increase bleeding risk when given with argatroban because of their potential to cause GI bleeding or inhibit platelet aggregation.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving salicylates (e.g., aspirin) in combination with thrombin inhibitors. In addition, large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may also increase bleeding risk when given with argatroban because of their potential to cause GI bleeding or inhibit platelet aggregation.
Aspirin, ASA; Dipyridamole: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., clopidogrel, platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors, ticlopidine, etc.) in combination with argatroban. (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving salicylates (e.g., aspirin) in combination with thrombin inhibitors. In addition, large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may also increase bleeding risk when given with argatroban because of their potential to cause GI bleeding or inhibit platelet aggregation.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving salicylates (e.g., aspirin) in combination with thrombin inhibitors. In addition, large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may also increase bleeding risk when given with argatroban because of their potential to cause GI bleeding or inhibit platelet aggregation.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving salicylates (e.g., aspirin) in combination with thrombin inhibitors. In addition, large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may also increase bleeding risk when given with argatroban because of their potential to cause GI bleeding or inhibit platelet aggregation.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving salicylates (e.g., aspirin) in combination with thrombin inhibitors. In addition, large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may also increase bleeding risk when given with argatroban because of their potential to cause GI bleeding or inhibit platelet aggregation.
Bismuth Subsalicylate: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving salicylates (e.g., aspirin) in combination with thrombin inhibitors. In addition, large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may also increase bleeding risk when given with argatroban because of their potential to cause GI bleeding or inhibit platelet aggregation.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving salicylates (e.g., aspirin) in combination with thrombin inhibitors. In addition, large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may also increase bleeding risk when given with argatroban because of their potential to cause GI bleeding or inhibit platelet aggregation.
Bivalirudin: (Major) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving bivalirudin with argatroban.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving salicylates (e.g., aspirin) in combination with thrombin inhibitors. In addition, large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may also increase bleeding risk when given with argatroban because of their potential to cause GI bleeding or inhibit platelet aggregation.
Caplacizumab: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of caplacizumab and anticoagulants when possible. Assess and monitor closely for bleeding if use together is necessary. Interrupt use of caplacizumab if clinically significant bleeding occurs.
Celecoxib: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Choline Salicylate; Magnesium Salicylate: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving salicylates (e.g., aspirin) in combination with thrombin inhibitors. In addition, large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may also increase bleeding risk when given with argatroban because of their potential to cause GI bleeding or inhibit platelet aggregation.
Cilostazol: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., clopidogrel, platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors, ticlopidine, etc.) in combination with argatroban.
Citalopram: (Moderate) Advise patients of the increased bleeding risk associated with the concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and other drugs that affect coagulation like thrombin inhibitors. Case reports and epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and gastrointestinal bleeding.
Clopidogrel: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., clopidogrel, platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors, ticlopidine, etc.) in combination with argatroban.
Collagenase: (Moderate) Cautious use of injectable collagenase by patients taking anticoagulants is advised. The efficacy and safety of administering injectable collagenase to a patient taking an anticoagulant within 7 days before the injection are unknown. Receipt of injectable collagenase may cause an ecchymosis or bleeding at the injection site.
Dabigatran: (Major) Avoid use of dabigatran with argatroban due to the increased bleeding risk. Monitor patients closely and promptly evaluate any signs or symptoms of bleeding if dabigatran and other anticoagulants are used concomitantly. Coadministration of dabigatran and other anticoagulants may increase the risk of bleeding. Long-term concomitant treatment with dabigatran and other anticoagulants is not recommended; short-term use may be necessary for patients transitioning to or from dabigatran.
Dalteparin: (Major) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving dalteparin in combination with other anticoagulants. If coadministration of 2 or more anticoagulants is necessary, patients should be closely monitored for evidence of bleeding.
Dasatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for evidence of bleeding if coadministration of dasatinib and anticoagulants is necessary. Dasatinib can cause serious and fatal bleeding. Concomitant anticoagulants may increase the risk of hemorrhage.
Deferasirox: (Moderate) Because gastric ulceration and GI bleeding have been reported in patients taking deferasirox, use caution when coadministering with other drugs known to increase the risk of peptic ulcers or gastric hemorrhage including anticoagulants.
Defibrotide: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of defibrotide with antithrombotic agents like anticoagulants is contraindicated. The pharmacodynamic activity and risk of hemorrhage with antithrombotic agents are increased if coadministered with defibrotide. If therapy with defibrotide is necessary, discontinue systemic antithrombotic agents (not including use for routine maintenance or reopening of central venous catheters) prior to initiation of defibrotide therapy. Consider delaying the onset of defibrotide treatment until the effects of the antithrombotic agent have abated.
Deoxycholic Acid: (Moderate) Use deoxycholic acid with caution in patients receiving anticoagulants. Excessive bruising or bleeding may occur in and around the treatment area.
Desvenlafaxine: (Moderate) Advise patients of the increased bleeding risk associated with the concomitant use of serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) and anticoagulants like argatroban. Case reports and epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and gastrointestinal bleeding.
Dextran: (Moderate) Because of the potential effects of certain dextran formulations on bleeding time, use with caution in patients on anticoagulants concurrently.
Diclofenac: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Diflunisal: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Dipyridamole: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., clopidogrel, platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors, ticlopidine, etc.) in combination with argatroban.
Donanemab: (Major) Avoid the use of amyloid-beta monoclonal antibody directed therapy in patients that require therapeutic anticoagulation. Anticoagulation may increase the risk for intracerebral hemorrhage especially in patients that develop other amyloid related imaging abnormalities (ARIA) while on antiamyloid-beta immunotherapy.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Advise patients of the increased bleeding risk associated with the concomitant use of serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) and anticoagulants like argatroban. Case reports and epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and gastrointestinal bleeding.
Edoxaban: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of edoxaban with thrombin inhibitors due to the increased bleeding risk. Monitor patients closely and promptly evaluate any signs or symptoms of bleeding if edoxaban and other anticoagulants are used concomitantly. Coadministration of edoxaban and other anticoagulants may increase the risk of bleeding. Long-term concomitant treatment with edoxaban and other anticoagulants is not recommended; short-term use may be necessary for patients transitioning to or from edoxaban.
Eltrombopag: (Moderate) Use caution when discontinuing eltrombopag in patients receiving anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin, enoxaparin, dabigatran, rivaroxaban). The risk of bleeding and recurrent thrombocytopenia is increased in patients receiving these drugs when eltrombopag is discontinued.
Enoxaparin: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving enoxaparin in combination with other anticoagulants. If coadministration of 2 or more anticoagulants is necessary, patients should be closely monitored for evidence of bleeding.
Epoprostenol: (Moderate) When used concurrently with anticoagulants, epoprostenol may increase the risk of bleeding.
Eptifibatide: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., clopidogrel, platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors, ticlopidine, etc.) in combination with argatroban.
Escitalopram: (Moderate) Advise patients of the increased bleeding risk associated with the concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and other drugs that affect coagulation like thrombin inhibitors. Case reports and epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and gastrointestinal bleeding.
Esterified Estrogens; methylTESTOSTERone: (Moderate) Methyltestosterone can increase the effects of anticoagulants through reduction of procoagulant factor. Patients receiving oral anticoagulant therapy should be closely monitored, especially when methyltestosterone treatment is initiated or discontinued.
Etodolac: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Fenoprofen: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Fish Oil, Omega-3 Fatty Acids (Dietary Supplements): (Moderate) Drug interactions with fish oil, omega-3 fatty acids (Dietary Supplements) or fish oil, omega-3 fatty acids (FDA-approved) are unclear at this time. However, because fish oil, omega-3 fatty acids inhibit platelet aggregation, caution is advised when fish oils are used concurrently with anticoagulants, platelet inhibitors, or thrombolytic agents. Theoretically, the risk of bleeding may be increased, but some studies that combined these agents did not produce clinically significant bleeding events. In one placebo-controlled, randomized, double-blinded, parallel study, patients receiving stable, chronic warfarin therapy were administered various doses of fish oil supplements to determine the effect on INR determinations. Patients were randomized to receive a 4-week treatment period of either placebo or 3 or 6 grams of fish oil daily. Patients were followed on a twice-weekly basis for INR determinations and adverse reactions. There was no statistically significant difference in INRs between the placebo or treatment period within each group. There was also no difference in INRs found between groups. One episode of ecchymosis was reported, but no major bleeding episodes occurred. The authors concluded that fish oil supplementation in doses of 3-6 grams per day does not have a statistically significant effect on the INR of patients receiving chronic warfarin therapy. However, an increase in INR from 2.8 to 4.3 in a patient stable on warfarin therapy has been reported when increasing the dose of fish oil, omega-3 fatty acids from 1 gram/day to 2 grams/day. The INR decreased once the patient decreased her dose of fish oil to 1 gram/day. This implies that a dose-related effect of fish oil on warfarin may be possible. Patients receiving warfarin that initiate concomitant fish oil therapy should have their INR monitored more closely and the dose of warfarin adjusted accordingly.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Advise patients of the increased bleeding risk associated with the concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and other drugs that affect coagulation like thrombin inhibitors. Case reports and epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and gastrointestinal bleeding.
Flurbiprofen: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
fluvoxaMINE: (Moderate) Advise patients of the increased bleeding risk associated with the concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and other drugs that affect coagulation like thrombin inhibitors. Case reports and epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and gastrointestinal bleeding.
Fondaparinux: (Major) Discontinue thrombin inhibitors before starting fondaparinux due to the increased bleeding risk, unless these agents are essential. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely and promptly evaluate any signs or symptoms of bleeding.
Garlic, Allium sativum: (Moderate) Garlic produces clinically significant antiplatelet effects so additive risk of bleeding may occur if anticoagulants are given in combination. Avoid concurrent use of herbs which interact with anticoagulants when possible. If garlic dietary supplements are taken, monitor the INR or other appropriate parameters to attain clinical and anticoagulant endpoints. In regard to warfarin, published data are limited to a random case report; however, the product labeling for warfarin includes garlic as having potential for interaction due to additive pharmacologic activity. A case of spontaneous spinal epidural hematoma, attributed to dysfunctional platelets from excessive garlic use in a patient not receiving concomitant anticoagulation, has been reported.
Ginger, Zingiber officinale: (Moderate) Additive bleeding may occur if anticoagulants are given in combination with ginger, zingiber officinale. Ginger inhibits thromboxane synthetase (platelet aggregation inducer) and is a prostacyclin agonist. Patients taking ginger and an anticoagulant should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Ginkgo, Ginkgo biloba: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of bleeding with coadministration of ginkgo biloba and thrombin inhibitors as an increased bleeding risk may occur. Although data are mixed, ginkgo biloba is reported to inhibit platelet aggregation and several case reports describe bleeding complications with ginkgo biloba, with or without concomitant drug therapy.
Green Tea: (Moderate) Green tea has demonstrated antiplatelet and fibrinolytic actions in animals. It is possible that the use of green tea may increase the risk of bleeding if co-administered with anticoagulants (e.g., enoxaparin, heparin, warfarin, and others), thrombolytic agents, or platelet inhibitors (e.g., aspirin, clopidogrel, cilostazol and others). Caution and careful monitoring of clinical and/or laboratory parameters are warranted if green tea is coadministered with any of these agents. Exogenous administration or occult sources of vitamin K may decrease or reverse the activity of warfarin; stability of the diet can be an important factor in maintaining anticoagulation goals. Occult sources of vitamin K include green tea and green tea dietary supplements. Published data are limited in regard to this interaction. A patient with previous INRs of 3.2 and 3.79 on a dose of 7.5mg daily of warfarin (goal INR 2.5 to 3.5) had an INR of 1.37. One month later, the patient's INR was 1.14. The patient admitted that he had started consuming 0.51 gallon of green tea daily approximately one week prior to the INR of 1.37. The patient denied noncompliance and other changes in diet, medications, or health. The patient discontinued green tea and one week later his INR was 2.55. While the amount of vitamin K in a single cup of brewed green tea may not be high (0.03 mcg/100 g), the actual amount may vary from cup to cup depending on the amount of tea leaves used, the length of time the tea bags are allowed to brew, and the volume of tea consumed. Additionally, if a patient drinks multiple cups of tea per day, the amount of vitamin K could reach significance. It is recommended that patients on warfarin maintain a stable intake of green tea.
Hemin: (Major) Because hemin has exhibited transient, mild anticoagulant effects during clinical studies, concurrent use of anticoagulants should be avoided. The extent and duration of the hypocoagulable state induced by hemin has not been established.
Heparin: (Major) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving other anticoagulants in combination with heparin.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving salicylates (e.g., aspirin) in combination with thrombin inhibitors. In addition, large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may also increase bleeding risk when given with argatroban because of their potential to cause GI bleeding or inhibit platelet aggregation.
Ibritumomab Tiuxetan: (Major) During and after therapy, avoid the concomitant use of Yttrium (Y)-90 ibrutumomab tiuxetan with drugs that interfere with coagulation such as anticoagulants; the risk of bleeding may be increased. If coadministration with anticoagulants is necessary, monitor platelet counts more frequently for evidence of thrombocytopenia.
Ibrutinib: (Moderate) The concomitant use of ibrutinib and anticoagulant agents such as argatroban may increase the risk of bleeding; monitor patients for signs of bleeding. Severe bleeding events have occurred with ibrutinib therapy including intracranial hemorrhage, GI bleeding, hematuria, and post procedural hemorrhage; some events were fatal. The mechanism for bleeding with ibrutinib therapy is not well understood.
Ibuprofen: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Icosapent ethyl: (Moderate) Icosapent ethyl is an ethyl ester of the omega-3 fatty acid eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA). Because omega-3 fatty acids inhibit platelet aggregation, caution is advised when icosapent ethyl is used concurrently with anticoagulants, platelet inhibitors, or thrombolytic agents. Theoretically, the risk of bleeding may be increased, but some studies that combined these agents did not produce clinically significant bleeding events. In one placebo-controlled, randomized, double-blinded, parallel study, patients receiving stable, chronic warfarin therapy were administered various doses of fish oil supplements to determine the effect on INR determinations. Patients were randomized to receive a 4-week treatment period of either placebo or 3 or 6 grams of fish oil daily. Patients were followed on a twice-weekly basis for INR determinations and adverse reactions. There was no statistically significant difference in INRs between the placebo or treatment period within each group. There was also no difference in INRs found between groups. One episode of ecchymosis was reported, but no major bleeding episodes occurred. The authors concluded that fish oil supplementation in doses of 36 grams per day does not have a statistically significant effect on the INR of patients receiving chronic warfarin therapy. However, an increase in INR from 2.8 to 4.3 in a patient stable on warfarin therapy has been reported when increasing the dose of fish oil, omega-3 fatty acids from 1 gram/day to 2 grams/day. The INR decreased once the patient decreased her dose of fish oil to 1 gram/day. This implies that a dose-related effect of fish oil on warfarin may be possible. Patients receiving warfarin that initiate concomitant icosapent ethyl therapy should have their INR monitored more closely and the dose of warfarin adjusted accordingly.
Iloprost: (Moderate) When used concurrently with anticoagulants, inhaled iloprost may increase the risk of bleeding.
Indomethacin: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Inotersen: (Moderate) Use caution with concomitant use of inotersen and anticoagulants due to the potential risk of bleeding from thrombocytopenia. Consider discontinuation of anticoagulants in a patient taking inotersen with a platelet count of less than 50,000 per microliter.
Intravenous Lipid Emulsions: (Moderate) Drug interactions with fish oil, omega-3 fatty acids (Dietary Supplements) or fish oil, omega-3 fatty acids (FDA-approved) are unclear at this time. However, because fish oil, omega-3 fatty acids inhibit platelet aggregation, caution is advised when fish oils are used concurrently with anticoagulants, platelet inhibitors, or thrombolytic agents. Theoretically, the risk of bleeding may be increased, but some studies that combined these agents did not produce clinically significant bleeding events. In one placebo-controlled, randomized, double-blinded, parallel study, patients receiving stable, chronic warfarin therapy were administered various doses of fish oil supplements to determine the effect on INR determinations. Patients were randomized to receive a 4-week treatment period of either placebo or 3 or 6 grams of fish oil daily. Patients were followed on a twice-weekly basis for INR determinations and adverse reactions. There was no statistically significant difference in INRs between the placebo or treatment period within each group. There was also no difference in INRs found between groups. One episode of ecchymosis was reported, but no major bleeding episodes occurred. The authors concluded that fish oil supplementation in doses of 3-6 grams per day does not have a statistically significant effect on the INR of patients receiving chronic warfarin therapy. However, an increase in INR from 2.8 to 4.3 in a patient stable on warfarin therapy has been reported when increasing the dose of fish oil, omega-3 fatty acids from 1 gram/day to 2 grams/day. The INR decreased once the patient decreased her dose of fish oil to 1 gram/day. This implies that a dose-related effect of fish oil on warfarin may be possible. Patients receiving warfarin that initiate concomitant fish oil therapy should have their INR monitored more closely and the dose of warfarin adjusted accordingly.
Ketoprofen: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Ketorolac: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Lecanemab: (Major) Avoid the use of amyloid-beta monoclonal antibody directed therapy in patients that require therapeutic anticoagulation. Anticoagulation may increase the risk for intracerebral hemorrhage especially in patients that develop other amyloid related imaging abnormalities (ARIA) while on antiamyloid-beta immunotherapy.
Levomilnacipran: (Moderate) Advise patients of the increased bleeding risk associated with the concomitant use of serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) and anticoagulants like argatroban. Case reports and epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and gastrointestinal bleeding.
Lithium: (Moderate) Moderate to significant dietary sodium changes, or changes in sodium and fluid intake, may affect lithium excretion. Systemic sodium chloride administration may result in increased lithium excretion and therefore, decreased serum lithium concentrations. In addition, high fluid intake may increase lithium excretion. For patients receiving sodium-containing intravenous fluids, symptom control and lithium concentrations should be carefully monitored. It is recommended that patients taking lithium maintain consistent dietary sodium consumption and adequate fluid intake during the initial stabilization period and throughout lithium treatment. Supplemental oral sodium and fluid should be only be administered under careful medical supervision.
Magnesium Salicylate: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving salicylates (e.g., aspirin) in combination with thrombin inhibitors. In addition, large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may also increase bleeding risk when given with argatroban because of their potential to cause GI bleeding or inhibit platelet aggregation.
Meclofenamate Sodium: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Mefenamic Acid: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Meloxicam: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Methenamine; Sodium Salicylate: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving salicylates (e.g., aspirin) in combination with thrombin inhibitors. In addition, large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may also increase bleeding risk when given with argatroban because of their potential to cause GI bleeding or inhibit platelet aggregation.
Methoxsalen: (Minor) Agents, such as anticoagulants, that decrease clotting could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
methylTESTOSTERone: (Moderate) Methyltestosterone can increase the effects of anticoagulants through reduction of procoagulant factor. Patients receiving oral anticoagulant therapy should be closely monitored, especially when methyltestosterone treatment is initiated or discontinued.
miFEPRIStone: (Contraindicated) When mifepristone is used for the termination of pregnancy, concurrent use of anticoagulants is contraindicated due to the risk of serious bleeding.
Milnacipran: (Moderate) Advise patients of the increased bleeding risk associated with the concomitant use of serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) and anticoagulants like argatroban. Case reports and epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and gastrointestinal bleeding.
Miltefosine: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering miltefosine with anticoagulants, as use of these drugs together may increase risk for bleeding. Miltefosine, when administered for the treatment of visceral leishmaniasis, has been associated with thrombocytopenia; monitor platelet counts in patients receiving treatment for this indication. In addition, monitor closely for increased bleeding if use in combination with an anticoagulant.
Mycophenolate: (Moderate) Mycophenolate may causes thrombocytopenia and increase the risk for bleeding. Agents which may lead to an increased incidence of bleeding in patients with thrombocytopenia include anticoagulants.
Nabumetone: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Naproxen: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Nelarabine: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant anticoagulants.
Nintedanib: (Moderate) Nintedanib is a VEGFR inhibitor and may increase the risk of bleeding. Monitor patients who are taking anticoagulants closely and adjust anticoagulation therapy as necessary. Use nintedanib in patients with known risk of bleeding only if the anticipated benefit outweighs the potential risk.
Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Obinutuzumab: (Moderate) Fatal hemorrhagic events have been reported in patients treated with obinutuzumab; all events occurred during cycle 1. Monitor all patients for thrombocytopenia and bleeding, and consider withholding concomitant medications which may increase bleeding risk (i.e., anticoagulants, platelet inhibitors), especially during the first cycle.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Advise patients of the increased bleeding risk associated with the concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and other drugs that affect coagulation like thrombin inhibitors. Case reports and epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and gastrointestinal bleeding.
Omacetaxine: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of omacetaxine and anticoagulants when the platelet count is less than 50,000 cells/microliter due to an increased risk of bleeding.
Omidubicel: (Moderate) Because of the potential effects of certain dextran formulations on bleeding time, use with caution in patients on anticoagulants concurrently.
Oxandrolone: (Moderate) An increased effect of anticoagulants may occur with oxandrolone; the anticoagulant dosage may need adjustment downward with oxandrolone initiation or adjustment upward with oxandrolone discontinuation to maintain the desired clinical effect. Oxandrolone suppresses clotting factors II, V, VII, and X, which results in an increased prothrombin time. An increase in plasminogen-activator activity, and serum concentrations of plasminogen, protein C, and antithrombin III have occurred with several 17-alpha-alkylated androgens. For example, concurrent use of oxandrolone and warfarin may result in unexpectedly large increases in the INR or prothrombin time (PT). A multidose study of oxandrolone (5 or 10 mg PO twice daily) in 15 healthy individuals concurrently treated with warfarin resulted in significant increases in warfarin half-life and AUC; a 5.5-fold decrease in the mean warfarin dosage from 6.13 mg/day to 1.13 mg/day (approximately 80 to 85% dose reduction) was necessary to maintain a target INR of 1.5. According to the manufacturer, if oxandrolone therapy is initiated in a patient already receiving warfarin, the dose of warfarin may need to be decreased significantly to reduce the potential for excessive INR elevations and associated risk of serious bleeding events. The patient should be closely monitored with frequent evaluation of the INR and clinical parameter, and the dosage of warfarin should be adjusted as necessary until a stable target INR is achieved. Careful monitoring of the INR and necessary adjustment of the warfarin dosage are also recommended when the androgen therapy is changed or discontinued.
Oxaprozin: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
PARoxetine: (Moderate) Advise patients of the increased bleeding risk associated with the concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and other drugs that affect coagulation like thrombin inhibitors. Case reports and epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and gastrointestinal bleeding.
Pentosan: (Major) Pentosan is a weak anticoagulant. Pentosan has 1/15 the anticoagulant activity of heparin. An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving other anticoagulants in combination with pentosan.
Piperacillin; Tazobactam: (Moderate) Some penicillins (e.g., piperacillin) can inhibit platelet aggregation, which may increase the risk of bleeding with any anticoagulants. Clinically important bleeding of this type, however, is relatively rare. The concomitant use of warfarin with many classes of antibiotics, including penicillins, may result in an increased INR thereby potentiating the risk for bleeding. Inhibition of vitamin K synthesis due to alterations in the intestinal flora may be a mechanism; however, concurrent infection is also a potential risk factor for elevated INR. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of bleeding. Additionally, increased monitoring of the INR, especially during initiation and upon discontinuation of the antibiotic, may be necessary in patients receiving warfarin.
Piroxicam: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Platelet Inhibitors: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., clopidogrel, platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors, ticlopidine, etc.) in combination with argatroban.
Prasterone, Dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA (Dietary Supplements): (Major) Prasterone (DHEA) is contraindicated for use in patients with active deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism or history of these conditions. Prasterone is also contraindicated in patients with active arterial thromboembolic disease (for example, stroke and myocardial infarction), or a history of these conditions. Thus, patients receiving anticoagulation due to a history of these conditions are not candidates for prasterone treatment. DHEA is converted to androgens and estrogens within the human body and thus may affect hemostasis via androgenic or estrogenic effects. Estrogens increase the production of clotting factors VII, VIII, IX, and X. Androgens, such as testosterone, increase the synthesis of several anticoagulant and fibrinolytic proteins. Because of the potential effects on coagulation, patients receiving prasterone or DHEA concurrently with preventative anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin or heparin) or other platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, ASA should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments.
Prasterone, Dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA (FDA-approved): (Major) Prasterone (DHEA) is contraindicated for use in patients with active deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism or history of these conditions. Prasterone is also contraindicated in patients with active arterial thromboembolic disease (for example, stroke and myocardial infarction), or a history of these conditions. Thus, patients receiving anticoagulation due to a history of these conditions are not candidates for prasterone treatment. DHEA is converted to androgens and estrogens within the human body and thus may affect hemostasis via androgenic or estrogenic effects. Estrogens increase the production of clotting factors VII, VIII, IX, and X. Androgens, such as testosterone, increase the synthesis of several anticoagulant and fibrinolytic proteins. Because of the potential effects on coagulation, patients receiving prasterone or DHEA concurrently with preventative anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin or heparin) or other platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, ASA should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments.
Prasugrel: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., clopidogrel, platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors, ticlopidine, etc.) in combination with argatroban.
Remibrutinib: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of remibrutinib and anticoagulants. Both medications increase the risk for bleeding and concomitant use may further increase risk.
Reteplase, r-PA: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and thrombin inhibitors is necessary. For acute ischemic stroke, avoid the use of thrombolytics in patients receiving thrombin inhibitors and consider delaying the initiation of thrombin inhibitor therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Thrombolytics may still be considered in some patients, such as those with an anticoagulation test available demonstrating that they are not therapeutically anticoagulated, based on their overall risk profile. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Rivaroxaban: (Major) Due to the increased bleeding risk, avoid concurrent use of rivaroxaban with thrombin inhibitors; the safety of concomitant use has not been studied. If a thrombin inhibitor is used during therapeutic transition periods, closely observe patients and promptly evaluate any signs or symptoms of blood loss.
Salicylates: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving salicylates (e.g., aspirin) in combination with thrombin inhibitors. In addition, large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may also increase bleeding risk when given with argatroban because of their potential to cause GI bleeding or inhibit platelet aggregation.
Salsalate: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving salicylates (e.g., aspirin) in combination with thrombin inhibitors. In addition, large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may also increase bleeding risk when given with argatroban because of their potential to cause GI bleeding or inhibit platelet aggregation.
Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors: (Moderate) Advise patients of the increased bleeding risk associated with the concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and other drugs that affect coagulation like thrombin inhibitors. Case reports and epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and gastrointestinal bleeding.
Serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors: (Moderate) Advise patients of the increased bleeding risk associated with the concomitant use of serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) and anticoagulants like argatroban. Case reports and epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and gastrointestinal bleeding.
Sertraline: (Moderate) Advise patients of the increased bleeding risk associated with the concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and other drugs that affect coagulation like thrombin inhibitors. Case reports and epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and gastrointestinal bleeding.
Sulindac: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Telavancin: (Moderate) Telavancin has no effect on coagulation or platelet aggregation; however, caution is advised when administering telavancin concurrently with anticoagulants as telavancin may interfere with laboratory tests used in monitoring these medications. The coagulation tests affected by telavancin include prothrombin time (PT), international normalized ratio (INR), activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT), activated clotting time, and coagulation based factor Xa tests. When measured shortly after completion of a telavancin infusion, the results of these tests are increased; however, the effects of telavancin on these tests dissipate over time as plasma concentrations of telavancin decrease. Therefore, when administering telavancin in conjunction with anticoagulants ensure that blood samples for these coagulation tests are collected as close as possible to the patient's next telavancin dose.
Tenecteplase: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and thrombin inhibitors is necessary. For acute ischemic stroke, avoid the use of thrombolytics in patients receiving thrombin inhibitors and consider delaying the initiation of thrombin inhibitor therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Thrombolytics may still be considered in some patients, such as those with an anticoagulation test available demonstrating that they are not therapeutically anticoagulated, based on their overall risk profile. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Thrombolytic Agents: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and thrombin inhibitors is necessary. For acute ischemic stroke, avoid the use of thrombolytics in patients receiving thrombin inhibitors and consider delaying the initiation of thrombin inhibitor therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Thrombolytics may still be considered in some patients, such as those with an anticoagulation test available demonstrating that they are not therapeutically anticoagulated, based on their overall risk profile. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Ticagrelor: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., clopidogrel, platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors, ticlopidine, etc.) in combination with argatroban.
Tipranavir: (Moderate) Caution should be used when administering tipranavir to patients receiving anticoagulants or platelet inhibitors. In clinical trials, there have been 14 reports of intracranial bleeding (intracranial hemorrhage, ICH), including 8 fatalities, in 13 out of 6,840 HIV infected patients receiving tipranavir as part of combination antiretroviral therapy. In many of these reports, the patients had other medical conditions (CNS lesions, head trauma, recent neurosurgery, coagulopathy, hypertension, or alcoholism/alcohol abuse) or were receiving concomitant medications, including anticoagulants and antiplatelet agents, that may have caused or contributed to these events. The median time to onset of an ICH event was 525 days on tipranavir treatment. In general, there have been no reported patterns of abnormal coagulation parameters in patients receiving tipranavir, or preceding the development of ICH. Routine measurement of coagulation parameters does not appear to be indicated. An increased risk of ICH has previously been observed in patients with advanced HIV disease or AIDS; further investigations are ongoing to assess the role of tipranavir in ICH. While coadministration with warfarin does not result in altered warfarin concentrations, alterations in INR may still occur; close monitoring of the patient's INR is recommended. Patients should be advised to promptly report any signs or symptoms of bleeding.
Tirofiban: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., clopidogrel, platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors, ticlopidine, etc.) in combination with argatroban.
Tolmetin: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving anticoagulants in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Tolvaptan: (Moderate) Coadministration of tolvaptan and hypertonic saline (e.g., 3% NaCl injection solution) is not recommended. The use of hypertonic sodium chloride in combination with tolvaptan may result in a too rapid correction of hyponatremia and increase the risk of osmotic demyelination (i.e., central pontine myelinolysis).
traZODone: (Moderate) Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking trazodone concurrently with anticoagulants and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner. Serotonergic agents may increase the risk of bleeding when combined with anticoagulants via inhibition of serotonin uptake by platelets; however, the absolute risk is not known. It would be prudent for clinicians to monitor the INR and patient's clinical status closely if trazodone is added to or removed from the regimen of a patient stabilized on anticoagulant therapy.
Treprostinil: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of treprostinil and anticoagulants. When used concurrently with anticoagulants, treprostinil may increase the risk of bleeding.
Venlafaxine: (Moderate) Advise patients of the increased bleeding risk associated with the concomitant use of serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) and anticoagulants like argatroban. Case reports and epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and gastrointestinal bleeding.
Verteporfin: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of verteporfin with anticoagulants is necessary due to the risk of decreased verteporfin efficacy. Verteporfin is a light-activated drug. Once activated, local damage to neovascular endothelium results in a release of procoagulant and vasoactive factors resulting in platelet aggregation, fibrin clot formation, and vasoconstriction. Concomitant use of drugs that decrease clotting could decrease the efficacy of verteporfin therapy.
Vilazodone: (Moderate) Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vilazodone concurrently with anticoagulants and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner. Serotonergic agents may increase the risk of bleeding when combined with anticoagulants via inhibition of serotonin uptake by platelets; however, the absolute risk is not known. In addition, both vilazodone and warfarin are highly protein bound, which may result in displacement of warfarin from protein binding sites and an increased anticoagulant effect. It would be prudent for clinicians to monitor the INR and clinical status of the patient closely if vilazodone is added to or removed from the regimen of a patient stabilized on warfarin.
Vorapaxar: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., clopidogrel, platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors, ticlopidine, etc.) in combination with argatroban.
Vortioxetine: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving anticoagulants. Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with anticoagulants and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner. Co-administration of vortioxetine and warfarin has not been shown to significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of either agent.
Warfarin: (Major) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving other anticoagulants (e.g., heparin, warfarin) in combination with argatroban.


Adverse Reaction
bleeding, GI bleeding, hematemesis, hematoma, hematuria, hemoptysis, intracranial bleeding, retroperitoneal bleeding


Bleeding is the most common adverse effect of argatroban therapy. In trials, major hemorrhagic events were defined as overt bleeding that was associated with a hemoglobin decrease of 2 g/dL or more, that led to a transfusion of 2 units or more, or that was intracranial, retroperitoneal, or into a major prosthetic joint. Minor bleeding was defined as overt bleeding that did not meet the criteria for major bleeding. Overall, major bleeding was reported in 5.3% of patients with heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) and in 1.8% of patients in percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) trials. Bleeding complications included GI bleeding (0.9% to 5.3% major; 2.6% to 14.4% minor and included hematemesis), genitourinary bleeding and hematuria (0.9% major; 1.8% to 11.6% minor), decreased hemoglobin and hematocrit (0.7% major; 1.8% to 10.4% minor), limb and below-the-knee amputation bleeding (0.5% major), retroperitoneal bleeding (0.9% major), groin bleeding or hematoma (3.6% to 5.4% minor), hemoptysis (0.9% to 2.9% minor), brachial bleeding (2.4% minor), CABG (coronary artery) bleeding in PCI patients (1.8% minor), and access site bleeding (0.9% minor). Multisystem hemorrhage and disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) were also reported but occurred more frequently in historical controls (1%) than in argatroban-treated patients (0.5%). Major bleeding occurred in 2 children with HIT; in both cases, the event was intracranial bleeding with 1 occurring after 4 days of therapy and the second after more than 14 days of therapy. Additionally, in acute myocardial infarction patients receiving both argatroban and streptokinase, intracranial bleeding occurred in 1% of patients. Furthermore, in a prospective, placebo-controlled study of patients who had onset of acute stroke within 12 hours, the use of argatroban was associated with symptomatic intracranial hemorrhage in 4.3% of all argatroban patients, 3.4% of patients treated with high-dose argatroban (3 mcg/kg/minute titrated to a goal aPTT 2.25 times baseline), 5.1% of patients treated with low-dose argatroban (1 mcg/kg/minute titrated to a goal aPTT 1.75 times baseline), and 0% of patients receiving placebo (p-value of 0.18 or more for all comparisons). Asymptomatic intracranial hemorrhage occurred in 4.3% of all patients treated with argatroban, 1.7% of patients treated with high-dose argatroban, 6.9% of patients treated with low-dose argatroban, and 3.7% of patients receiving placebo (p-value of 0.61 or more for all comparisons). Aggravation of bleeding (e.g., puncture sites in hemodialysis patients, hemorrhoidal bleeding) has been occasionally observed in patients treated with argatroban.


thrombosis


In argatroban patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI), coronary thrombosis was reported in 1.8% of patients, and arterial thrombosis was noted in 0.9% of patients. Thrombosis occurred in 2 pediatric patients during argatroban administration and to 3 other patients after argatroban discontinuation during a 30-day study evaluating argatroban use in 18 seriously ill pediatric patients aged 6 months to 16 years.


anaphylactoid reactions, bullous rash, cough, dyspnea, peripheral vasodilation, rash


Allergic or anaphylactoid reactions reported with argatroban in clinical trials include airway reactions, skin reactions, and general reactions. Cough (2.8% or more), dyspnea (8.1% or more), rash (1% to 9.9%), bullous rash (1% to 9.9%), and peripheral vasodilation (1% to 10%) have been reported with argatroban. Approximately 95% of these allergic reactions were reported in subjects who received concomitant thrombolytic therapy (e.g., streptokinase) for acute myocardial infarction and/or contrast media for coronary angiography. Additionally, anaphylaxis has been reported with argatroban in postmarketing.


angina


Patients with unstable angina have been reported to have a recurrence of rest angina after discontinuation of infusions of argatroban. Angina appears to occur after administration of higher doses of argatroban and is associated with greater prolongations of aPTT and evidence of rebound thrombin generation after drug discontinuation. Significant increases in thrombin-antithrombin III complex concentrations were observed within a few hours after cessation of the argatroban infusion. Angina was reported in 1.8% of argatroban patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI).


abdominal pain, diarrhea, gastroesophageal reflux, nausea, vomiting


Diarrhea (6.2%), nausea (4.8% to 7.1%), vomiting (4.2% to 6.3%), abdominal pain (2.6% to 3.6%), and gastrointestinal disorder/gastroesophageal reflux (GERD) (0.9%) were reported during clinical trials of argatroban.


atrial fibrillation, bradycardia, cardiac arrest, myocardial infarction, ventricular tachycardia


Cardiac arrest (5.8%), ventricular tachycardia (4.8%), atrial fibrillation (3%), bradycardia (4.5%), myocardial infarction (3.5% to 3.6%), myocardial ischemia (1.8%), occlusion coronary (1.8%), and aortic stenosis (0.9%) were reported during clinical trials of argatroban.


infection


Infection was reported during clinical trials with argatroban and included urinary tract infection (4.6%), sepsis (6%), unspecified infection (3.7%), and pneumonia (3.3%).


back pain, chest pain (unspecified), fever, headache, hypotension


Hypotension (7.2% to 10.7%), fever (0.9% to 6.9%), unspecified pain (4.6%), abnormal renal function (2.8%), cerebrovascular disorder (0.9% to 2.3%), chest pain (unspecified) (0.9% to 15.2%), back pain (8%), headache (5.4%), and vascular disorder (0.9%) have been reported during clinical trials of argatroban.


pulmonary edema


Pulmonary edema was reported in 0.9% of argatroban-treated patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) during clinical trials.


Description

Argatroban is an intravenous direct thrombin inhibitor indicated for thrombosis prophylaxis or treatment in patients with heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) and as an anticoagulant in patients with or at risk of HIT undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). Guidelines recommend argatroban or bivalirudin over other nonheparin anticoagulants in patients with HIT who require PCI. Unlike other nonheparin anticoagulants, argatroban is hepatically eliminated and can be used in patients with end-stage renal disease without dosage adjustment. In clinical trials, argatroban reduced the relative risk of death, new thrombosis, or other complications in patients with HIT.

Mechanism Of Action

Argatroban is a selective direct thrombin inhibitor similar to bivalirudin, desirudin, and lepirudin, recombinant forms of the natural anticoagulant hirudin. Argatroban reversibly inhibits the catalytic site of thrombin, neutralizing the actions of thrombin, including thrombin entrapped within established clots. It ultimately interferes with fibrin generation, platelet aggregation, factor XII activation, and other related biologic activities. Because all thrombin-dependent coagulation assays are affected, thrombin times are not helpful in monitoring argatroban activity. Argatroban is very short-acting due to its reversible binding to thrombin whereas lepirudin binds irreversibly to thrombin. Unlike heparin, neither argatroban nor lepirudin require antithrombin III for activity nor are these agents inhibited by platelet factor IV. No antagonists to direct thrombin inhibitors are known. Argatroban increases in a dose-dependent manner, the activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT), the activated clotting time (ACT), the prothrombin time (PT), the International Normalized Ratio (INR), and the thrombin time in healthy volunteers and cardiac patients.

Pharmacokinetics

Argatroban is administered by intravenous infusion. The distribution of argatroban is mainly within the extracellular fluid. Protein binding is about 54%, with 20% bound to albumin and 34% to alpha1-acid glycoprotein. In healthy volunteers, peak plasma concentrations occur within 3 to 4 hours. Anticoagulant effects are produced immediately upon initiation of argatroban infusion. Steady-state plasma concentrations are typically attained within 1 to 3 hours and increase proportionally with dose. Steady-state anticoagulant effects are well correlated with steady-state plasma concentrations. Argatroban is metabolized by hydroxylation and aromatization of the quinoline ring. The anticoagulant effects of the primary metabolite (M1) are 3 to 5-fold weaker than those of argatroban. Plasma concentrations of the M1 range between 0% to 20% of that of the parent drug. The other metabolites (M2 to M4) have not been detected in plasma or feces and are found only in very low amounts in the urine. Argatroban excretion is primarily via the biliary tract. In radiolabeled studies, approximately 16% and 14% of an administered dose were excreted as unchanged drug in the urine and feces, respectively. Total body clearance is approximately 5.1 mL/kg/minute for infusion doses up to 40 mcg/kg/minute. The terminal elimination half-life is about 39 to 51 minutes.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A4/5
The formation of argatroban metabolites is catalyzed by CYP3A4/5. Lack of effect of erythromycin, a potent CYP3A4/5 inhibitor, on argatroban pharmacokinetics suggests that CYP3A4/5-mediated metabolism is not an important elimination pathway.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Hepatic Impairment

Hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh score more than 6) is associated with a decreased clearance and an increased elimination half-life of 1.9 mL/kg/minute and 181 minutes, respectively.

Renal Impairment

The pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of argatroban at doses up to 5 mcg/kg/minute are not significantly affected by renal impairment. When administered as a continuous infusion of 2 mcg/kg/minute prior to and during hemodialysis, approximately 20% of argatroban is removed. In hemodialysis patients, a plasma argatroban concentration of 2 mcg/mL was associated with a 2.5-fold prolongation of the aPTT.

Pediatrics

Limited pharmacokinetic data are available from 15 seriously ill children. Argatroban clearance was 50% lower in seriously ill children compared to healthy adults. Four pediatric patients with elevated bilirubin secondary to cardiac complications or hepatic impairment had 80% lower clearance when compared to those with normal bilirubin concentrations.

Geriatric

The pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of argatroban at doses up to 5 mcg/kg/minute are not significantly affected by age.

Gender Differences

The pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of argatroban at doses up to 5 mcg/kg/minute are not significantly affected by gender.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Injectable Administration


Visually inspect parenteral products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.


Intravenous Administration

Premixed solution (1 mg/mL)
Dilution is not required.
Vial may be inverted for use with medical infusion set.
 
Dilution of concentrated injection (100 mg/mL vial)
Dilute in 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, 5% Dextrose Injection, or Lactated Ringer's Injection to a final concentration of 1 mg/mL.
ASHP Recommended Standard Concentrations for Adult Continuous Infusions: 1 mg/mL.
ASHP Recommended Standard Concentrations for Pediatric Continuous Infusions: 1 mg/mL.
Use of diluent at room temperature is recommended.
Mix with repeated inversion of the diluent bag for 1 minute. The diluted solution may show slight but brief haziness due to the formation of microprecipitates that rapidly dissolve upon mixing. The final solution must be clear before use. The pH of the diluted solution prepared as recommended is 3.2 to 7.5.
Storage after dilution (various manufacturers): Dilutions in 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, 5% Dextrose Injection, or Lactated Ringer's Injection are stable for 24 hours at controlled room temperature of 20 to 25 degrees C (68 to 77 degrees F) in ambient indoor light. Solutions are physically and chemically stable for up to 96 hours when protected from light and stored at controlled room temperature of 20 to 25 degrees C (68 to 77 degrees F) or under refrigeration at 2 to 8 degrees C (36 to 46 degrees F). Do not expose prepared solution to direct sunlight.
Storage after dilution (Fresenius): Dilutions in 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection are physically and chemically stable for up to 96 hours when protected from light and stored at controlled room temperature of 20 to 25 degrees C (68 to 77 degrees F) or under refrigeration at 2 to 8 degrees C (36 to 46 degrees F). Argatroban diluted in 5% Dextrose Injection or Lactated Ringer's Injection is physically and chemically stable for up to 4 hours when protected from light and stored at controlled room temperature of 20 to 25 degrees C (68 to 77 degrees F) or under refrigeration at 2 to 8 degrees C (36 to 46 degrees F). Do not expose prepared solution to direct sunlight.
 
Continuous IV Infusion
Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT)
Discontinue heparin and obtain a baseline aPTT before administering argatroban.
Check aPTT 2 hours after argatroban initiation and after any dose change. Adjust the dose (not to exceed 10 mcg/kg/minute) as necessary to obtain steady-state aPTT 1.5 to 3 times the initial baseline value (not to exceed 100 seconds).
 
Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI)
Obtain a baseline ACT.
Initiate an infusion and administer the bolus via large bore intravenous line over 3 to 5 minutes.
Check an activated clotting time (ACT) 5 to 10 minutes after the bolus dose is complete.
The PCI procedure may proceed once the ACT is more than 300 seconds.
Check the ACT 5 to 10 minutes after each bolus or infusion rate change. During a prolonged procedure, check ACTs every 20 to 30 minutes. Titrate the infusion for an ACT between 300 and 450 seconds for the duration of the procedure.
Obtain an ACT and the end of the procedure.


Maximum Dosage Limits

The maximum dosage is individualized based on aPTT or ACT monitoring and assessment of efficacy and safety parameters.

Dosage Forms

Argatroban 100mg/1mL Solution for injection

Argatroban 1mg/1mL Solution for injection

Argatroban 1mg/1mL, Sodium Chloride 0.9% Solution for injection

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

In patients with HIT:
Adults with moderate to severe hepatic impairment: decrease the initial dose to 0.5 mcg/kg/minute; adjust the dose as clinically indicated.
Pediatric patients with hepatic impairment: pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic models suggest an initial infusion rate of 0.2 mcg/kg/minute, adjusted in increasing increments of 0.05 mcg/kg/minute, may have comparable argatroban exposure as expected with adults doses.
In patients undergoing PCI:
Carefully titrate to desired level of anticoagulation in patients with hepatic impairment.
Avoid use in patients with clinically significant hepatic disease or AST/ALT levels 3 times or more the upper limit of normal.


Renal Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
 
Intermittent hemodialysis
When argatroban is administered as a continuous infusion (2 mcg/kg/minute) prior to and during a 4-hour hemodialysis session with high-flux membranes, systemic clearance increases by approximately 20%; however, activated clotting times (ACTs) remain stable during dialysis and dosage adjustment is not necessary.

© 2026 Elsevier