=== tiZANidine (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 819)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Tizanidine is an oral muscle relaxant used to reduce muscle tone associated with spasticity related to cerebral or spinal cord injury, multiple sclerosis, or other spastic disorders.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 36 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): asthenia, fatigue, infection, influenza, weakness, bradycardia, qt prolongation, ventricular tachycardia, depression, dizziness, drowsiness, dyskinesia, excitability, hallucinations, paresthesias, tremor, elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatitis, hepatotoxicity, anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, exfoliative dermatitis, rash, stevens-johnson syndrome

In an Overdose: Limited case reports have associated tizanidine with QT prolongation; however, confounding factors (e.g., tizanidine overdose, severe hypokalemia, concomitant use of azithromycin) were present and therefore causality has not been...

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Tizanidine is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to tizanidine or its ingredients.Tizanidine is a central-acting alpha2-adrenergic agonist which is structurally and pharmacologically related to clonidine. Although tizanidine has a lower propensity to lower blood pressure than...

Brand Names
  - Zanaflex

Dosage Forms
  - Ontralfy 2mg/5mL Solution
  - Tizanidine Hydrochloride 2mg Oral capsule
  - Tizanidine Hydrochloride 2mg Oral tablet
  - Tizanidine Hydrochloride 4mg Oral capsule
  - Tizanidine Hydrochloride 4mg Oral tablet
  - Tizanidine Hydrochloride 6mg Oral capsule
  - Tizanidine Hydrochloride 8mg Oral capsule
  - Tizanidine Hydrochloride Bulk powder
  - Zanaflex 2mg Capsule
  - Zanaflex 4mg Capsule
  - Zanaflex 4mg Tablet
  - Zanaflex 4mg Tablet
  - Zanaflex 6mg Capsule
  - Zanaflex 6mg Capsule
  - Zanaflex 8mg Capsule

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage (tablets, capsules, or oral solution, e.g., Ontralfy)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        2 mg PO every 6 to 8 hours as needed up to a maximum of 6 mg in 24 hours, initially. May increase the dose by 2 to 4 mg/dose every 1 to 4 days until a satisfactory reduction of muscle tone is achieved. Max: 36 mg/day. Single doses more than 16 mg have not been studied. To discontinue, reduce dose by 2 to 4 mg/day, particularly in people who have been receiving high doses for long periods (e.g., 20 to 28 mg daily for 9 weeks or more), or who are receiving concomitant opioids, to minimize the risk of withdrawal.
    Heading
    For the treatment of spasticity

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Tizanidine is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to tizanidine or its ingredients.Tizanidine is a central-acting alpha2-adrenergic agonist which is structurally and pharmacologically related to clonidine. Although tizanidine has a lower propensity to lower blood pressure than clonidine (2—10% of the antihypertensive potency in animal models), it can result in significant hypotension in some patients, especially with higher doses. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients at risk for developing hypotension including patients who are receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy (see Drug Interactions).Tizanidine should be used with caution in elderly patients because drug clearance may be decreased four-fold. Tizanidine should also be used with caution in patients with renal impairment (CrCl 35 times the maximum recommended human dose on a mg/m2 basis; these transient withdrawal signs (increased locomotion, body twitching, and aversive behavior) were not reversed by naloxone administration. Until more data are available, use caution when abruptly stopping therapy with tizanidine. If tizanidine therapy needs to be discontinued, especially in patients receiving high doses for long periods, the manufacturer recommends gradually reducing the dose to minimize the risk of withdrawal and rebound hypertension, tachycardia, and hypertonia.Tizanidine should be used with caution where spasticity is utilized to obtain increased function or to sustain posture and balance during movement.Tizanidine is classified as an FDA pregnancy category C drug. Tizanidine has not been studied in pregnant women. Tizanidine should be given to pregnant women only if clearly needed. The effect of tizanidine on labor and delivery in humans is unknown.It is not known whether tizanidine is excreted into human breast milk, although as a lipid soluble drug, it might be expected to pass into breast milk. Tizanidine should be used with caution in breast-feeding women. A decision should be made to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug, considering the therapeutic benefits for the mother.The safety and efficacy of tizanidine are not established in children.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    Use tizanidine with caution in people with renal impairment (CrCl less than 25 mL/minute) or renal failure, as drug clearance is significantly reduced. During dosage titration, the individual doses should be reduced. If higher doses are required, individual doses should be increased rather than dosing frequency.
    Headline
    hepatic failure
    General Information
    Use tizanidine with caution in individuals with hepatic impairment, including hepatic failure. During dosage titration in people with hepatic impairment, the individual doses should be reduced. If higher doses are required, individual doses rather than dosing frequency should be increased. Tizanidine may cause hepatocellular liver injury. Monitor aminotransferase concentrations in treated individuals at baseline and 1 month after the maximum dose of tizanidine is achieved, or if hepatic injury is suspected.
    Headline
    activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery
    General Information
    Advise individuals against driving or operating machinery or doing any activities requiring coordination and concentration until the effects of tizanidine are known. Tizanidine can cause sedation, which may interfere with everyday activity. Use tizanidine with caution in combination with ethanol ingestion or other CNS depressants.
    Headline
    geriatric
    General Information
    Tizanidine should be used with caution and close monitoring in geriatric adults. The older adult is more at risk for reduced drug clearance and side effects than younger adults. During dosage titration, reduce individual doses for the older adult.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Tizanidine should be given during pregnancy only if clearly needed; there are no adequate data on the developmental risk associated with use of tizanidine in human pregnancy. Reproduction studies performed in rats at a dose of 3 mg/kg, equal to the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) on a mg/m2 basis, and in rabbits at 30 mg/kg, 16 times the MRHD on a mg/m2 basis, did not show evidence of teratogenicity. Tizanidine at doses that are equal to and up to 8 times the MRHD on a mg/m2 basis increased gestation duration in rats. Prenatal and postnatal pup loss was increased and developmental retardation occurred. Post-implantation loss was increased in rabbits at doses of 1 mg/kg or greater (0.5 times or more the MRHD on a mg/m2 basis).
    Headline
    people who can cause pregnancy in others, people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel people who may become pregnant and people who can cause pregnancy in others about the reproductive risk associated with tizanidine. There are no adequate and well-controlled studies in humans evaluating the effect of tizanidine on reproductive potential. In animal studies, oral administration of tizanidine to male and female rats resulted in adverse effects on fertility.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Tizanidine use should be avoided during breast-feeding, due to the potential for serious adverse events (e.g., sedation, hypotension, hepatic injury) in a breastfed infant. There are no data on the presence of tizanidine in human milk, the effects on the breastfed infant, or the effects on human milk production. Animal studies have reported the presence of tizanidine in the milk of lactating animals. The developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding should be considered along with the clinical need for tizanidine and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from the medication or from the underlying maternal condition.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Tizanidine should be given during pregnancy only if clearly needed; there are no adequate data on the developmental risk associated with use of tizanidine in human pregnancy. Reproduction studies performed in rats at a dose of 3 mg/kg, equal to the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) on a mg/m2 basis, and in rabbits at 30 mg/kg, 16 times the MRHD on a mg/m2 basis, did not show evidence of teratogenicity. Tizanidine at doses that are equal to and up to 8 times the MRHD on a mg/m2 basis increased gestation duration in rats. Prenatal and postnatal pup loss was increased and developmental retardation occurred. Post-implantation loss was increased in rabbits at doses of 1 mg/kg or greater (0.5 times or more the MRHD on a mg/m2 basis).
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Counsel people who may become pregnant and people who can cause pregnancy in others about the reproductive risk associated with tizanidine. There are no adequate and well-controlled studies in humans evaluating the effect of tizanidine on reproductive potential. In animal studies, oral administration of tizanidine to male and female rats resulted in adverse effects on fertility.

Interactions
Acebutolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy.
Acetaminophen: (Minor) Tizanidine delays the time to attain peak concentrations of acetaminophen by about 16 minutes. The clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Minor) Tizanidine delays the time to attain peak concentrations of acetaminophen by about 16 minutes. The clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Minor) Tizanidine delays the time to attain peak concentrations of acetaminophen by about 16 minutes. The clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin: (Minor) Tizanidine delays the time to attain peak concentrations of acetaminophen by about 16 minutes. The clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of diphenhydramine and tizanidine due to the risk for additive CNS depression. (Minor) Tizanidine delays the time to attain peak concentrations of acetaminophen by about 16 minutes. The clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Minor) Tizanidine delays the time to attain peak concentrations of acetaminophen by about 16 minutes. The clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with tizanidine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with tizanidine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking tizanidine. (Minor) Tizanidine delays the time to attain peak concentrations of acetaminophen by about 16 minutes. The clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like sedating h1-blockers can cause additive CNS depression. (Minor) Tizanidine delays the time to attain peak concentrations of acetaminophen by about 16 minutes. The clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like sedating h1-blockers can cause additive CNS depression. (Minor) Tizanidine delays the time to attain peak concentrations of acetaminophen by about 16 minutes. The clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like sedating h1-blockers can cause additive CNS depression. (Minor) Tizanidine delays the time to attain peak concentrations of acetaminophen by about 16 minutes. The clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like sedating h1-blockers can cause additive CNS depression. (Minor) Tizanidine delays the time to attain peak concentrations of acetaminophen by about 16 minutes. The clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like sedating h1-blockers can cause additive CNS depression. (Minor) Tizanidine delays the time to attain peak concentrations of acetaminophen by about 16 minutes. The clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like sedating h1-blockers can cause additive CNS depression. (Minor) Tizanidine delays the time to attain peak concentrations of acetaminophen by about 16 minutes. The clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with tizanidine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with tizanidine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking tizanidine. (Minor) Tizanidine delays the time to attain peak concentrations of acetaminophen by about 16 minutes. The clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan: (Minor) Tizanidine delays the time to attain peak concentrations of acetaminophen by about 16 minutes. The clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of doxylamine and tizanidine due to the risk for additive CNS depression. (Minor) Tizanidine delays the time to attain peak concentrations of acetaminophen by about 16 minutes. The clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Minor) Tizanidine delays the time to attain peak concentrations of acetaminophen by about 16 minutes. The clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) Tizanidine delays the time to attain peak concentrations of acetaminophen by about 16 minutes. The clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Minor) Tizanidine delays the time to attain peak concentrations of acetaminophen by about 16 minutes. The clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) Tizanidine delays the time to attain peak concentrations of acetaminophen by about 16 minutes. The clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Acetaminophen; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of diphenhydramine and tizanidine due to the risk for additive CNS depression. (Minor) Tizanidine delays the time to attain peak concentrations of acetaminophen by about 16 minutes. The clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Acetaminophen; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Minor) Tizanidine delays the time to attain peak concentrations of acetaminophen by about 16 minutes. The clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with tizanidine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with tizanidine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking tizanidine. (Minor) Tizanidine delays the time to attain peak concentrations of acetaminophen by about 16 minutes. The clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Acetaminophen; Ibuprofen: (Minor) Tizanidine delays the time to attain peak concentrations of acetaminophen by about 16 minutes. The clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with tizanidine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with tizanidine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Reduce the initial oxycodone dosage by one-third to one-half when using the extended-release tablets. (Minor) Tizanidine delays the time to attain peak concentrations of acetaminophen by about 16 minutes. The clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Acetaminophen; Pamabrom; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like sedating h1-blockers can cause additive CNS depression. (Minor) Tizanidine delays the time to attain peak concentrations of acetaminophen by about 16 minutes. The clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Acetaminophen; Phenylephrine: (Minor) Tizanidine delays the time to attain peak concentrations of acetaminophen by about 16 minutes. The clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Acetaminophen; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) Tizanidine delays the time to attain peak concentrations of acetaminophen by about 16 minutes. The clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Acyclovir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tizanidine and acyclovir as increased tizanidine exposure may occur. If use together is necessary, initiate tizanidine at 2 mg and increase by 2 to 4 mg/day based on clinical response. Discontinue tizanidine if hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occurs. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate and acyclovir is a weak CYP1A2 inhibitor.
ALFentanil: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with skeletal muscle relaxants may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with skeletal muscle relaxants to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a skeletal muscle relaxant, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a skeletal muscle relaxant is prescribed for a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the skeletal muscle relaxant and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Aliskiren: (Moderate) Aliskiren can enhance the effects of tizanidine on blood pressure if given concomitantly. This additive effect may be desirable, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly. Blood pressure and electrolytes should be routinely monitored in patients receiving aliskiren.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Aliskiren can enhance the effects of tizanidine on blood pressure if given concomitantly. This additive effect may be desirable, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly. Blood pressure and electrolytes should be routinely monitored in patients receiving aliskiren. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and tizanidine use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Allopurinol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tizanidine and allopurinol as increased tizanidine exposure may occur. If use together is necessary, initiate tizanidine at 2 mg and increase by 2 to 4 mg/day based on clinical response. Discontinue tizanidine if hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occurs. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate and allopurinol is a weak CYP1A2 inhibitor.
ALPRAZolam: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like the benzodiazepines can cause additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given.
Ambrisentan: (Moderate) Although no specific interactions have been documented, ambrisentan has vasodilatory effects and may contribute additive hypotensive effects when given with other antihypertensive agents. Patients receiving ambrisentan in combination with other antihypertensive agents should be monitored for decreases in blood pressure.
aMILoride: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant potassium-sparing diuretic and tizanidine use due to risk for additive hypotension.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant potassium-sparing diuretic and tizanidine use due to risk for additive hypotension. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and tizanidine use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Amiodarone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tizanidine and amiodarone as increased tizanidine exposure may occur. If use together is necessary, initiate tizanidine at 2 mg and increase by 2 to 4 mg/day based on clinical response. Discontinue tizanidine if hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occurs. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate and amiodarone is a weak CYP1A2 inhibitor.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and tizanidine use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Amobarbital: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like barbiturates can cause additive CNS depression.
Anagrelide: (Moderate) Avoid concomitant use of tizanidine and anagrelide as increased serum concentrations of tizanidine may occur. If use together is necessary, initiate tizanidine with the 2 mg dose and increase daily in 2 to 4 mg increments based on clinical response. Discontinue tizanidine if hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occurs. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate; anagrelide demonstrates some limited inhibitory activity towards CYP1A2 which may present a theoretical potential for interaction.
Angiotensin II receptor antagonists: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy.
Anxiolytics; Sedatives; and Hypnotics: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of tizanidine with anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression. A reduction in the dose of these medications may be considered to minimize additive sedative effects, if they occur. With hypnotic medications, the risk of next-day psychomotor impairment is increased during co-administration of other CNS depressants, which may decrease the ability to perform tasks requiring full mental alertness such as driving.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of aripiprazole and tizanidine due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like barbiturates can cause additive CNS depression.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with tizanidine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with tizanidine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking tizanidine.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with tizanidine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with tizanidine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Reduce the initial oxycodone dosage by one-third to one-half when using the extended-release tablets.
Atenolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and tizanidine use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Azelastine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of azelastine and tizanidine. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Azelastine; Fluticasone: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of azelastine and tizanidine. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Azilsartan: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and tizanidine use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Baclofen: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of baclofen and tizanidine. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Barbiturates: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like barbiturates can cause additive CNS depression.
Belladonna; Opium: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with tizanidine may cause respiratory depression, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid agonists with tizanidine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Consider prescribing naloxone for emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Benazepril: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and tizanidine use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Major) Concomitant use of benzhydrocodone with a skeletal muscle relaxant may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with a skeletal muscle relaxant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. (Minor) Tizanidine delays the time to attain peak concentrations of acetaminophen by about 16 minutes. The clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Benzodiazepines: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like the benzodiazepines can cause additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given.
Beta-adrenergic blockers: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy.
Betaxolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy.
Bisoprolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and tizanidine use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy.
Brompheniramine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like sedating h1-blockers can cause additive CNS depression.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like sedating h1-blockers can cause additive CNS depression.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like sedating h1-blockers can cause additive CNS depression.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like sedating h1-blockers can cause additive CNS depression.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like sedating h1-blockers can cause additive CNS depression.
Bumetanide: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant loop diuretic and tizanidine use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Buprenorphine: (Major) Concomitant use of buprenorphine and tizanidine can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Reserve concomitant use of these drugs for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required. Monitor patients closely for signs of respiratory depression and sedation.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Major) Concomitant use of buprenorphine and tizanidine can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Reserve concomitant use of these drugs for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required. Monitor patients closely for signs of respiratory depression and sedation.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like barbiturates can cause additive CNS depression. (Minor) Tizanidine delays the time to attain peak concentrations of acetaminophen by about 16 minutes. The clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like barbiturates can cause additive CNS depression. (Minor) Tizanidine delays the time to attain peak concentrations of acetaminophen by about 16 minutes. The clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with tizanidine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with tizanidine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking tizanidine. (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like barbiturates can cause additive CNS depression. (Minor) Tizanidine delays the time to attain peak concentrations of acetaminophen by about 16 minutes. The clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with tizanidine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with tizanidine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking tizanidine. (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like barbiturates can cause additive CNS depression.
Butorphanol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of butorphanol with other CNS depressants, such as tizanidine, can potentiate the effects of butorphanol on respiratory depression, CNS depression, and sedation.
Calcium Carbonate; Famotidine; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tizanidine and famotidine as increased tizanidine exposure may occur. If use together is necessary, initiate tizanidine at 2 mg and increase by 2 to 4 mg per day based on clinical response. Discontinue tizanidine if hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occurs.
Candesartan: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and tizanidine use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Cannabidiol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tizanidine and cannabidiol as increased tizanidine exposure may occur. If use together is necessary, initiate tizanidine at 2 mg and increase by 2 to 4 mg/day based on clinical response. Discontinue tizanidine if hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occurs. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate and cannabidiol is a weak CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Capmatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tizanidine and capmatinib as increased tizanidine exposure may occur. If use together is necessary, initiate tizanidine at 2 mg and increase by 2 to 4 mg/day based on clinical response. Discontinue tizanidine if hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occurs. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate and capmatinib is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Captopril: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and tizanidine use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Carbidopa; Levodopa; Entacapone: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as tizanidine, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Carbinoxamine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like sedating h1-blockers can cause additive CNS depression.
Carteolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Major) Concomitant use of tramadol with a skeletal muscle relaxant may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with a skeletal muscle relaxant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Cenobamate: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of cenobamate and tizanidine. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Central-acting adrenergic agents: (Major) The use of tizanidine with other alpha 2-adrenergic agonists (such as central-acting adrenergic agonist antihypertensive agents) should be avoided because hypotensive effects may be cumulative. Tizanidine is an alpha 2-adrenergic agonist that can produce hypotension. Syncope has been reported in the postmarketing setting.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like sedating h1-blockers can cause additive CNS depression.
Chlorcyclizine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like sedating h1-blockers can cause additive CNS depression.
chlordiazePOXIDE: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like the benzodiazepines can cause additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like the benzodiazepines can cause additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like the benzodiazepines can cause additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given.
Chlorothiazide: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and tizanidine use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like sedating h1-blockers can cause additive CNS depression.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with tizanidine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with tizanidine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking tizanidine. (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like sedating h1-blockers can cause additive CNS depression.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like sedating h1-blockers can cause additive CNS depression.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like sedating h1-blockers can cause additive CNS depression.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like sedating h1-blockers can cause additive CNS depression.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with tizanidine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with tizanidine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking tizanidine. (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like sedating h1-blockers can cause additive CNS depression.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like sedating h1-blockers can cause additive CNS depression.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like sedating h1-blockers can cause additive CNS depression.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like sedating h1-blockers can cause additive CNS depression.
Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and tizanidine use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Cimetidine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tizanidine and cimetidine as increased tizanidine exposure may occur. If use together is necessary, initiate tizanidine at 2 mg and increase by 2 to 4 mg/day based on clinical response. Discontinue tizanidine if hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occurs. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate and cimetidine is a weak CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Ciprofloxacin: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of tizanidine and ciprofloxacin is contraindicated due to the risk of tizanidine toxicity, including clinically significant hypotension, bradycardia, and sedation. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ciprofloxacin is a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor. After a single 4 mg tizanidine dose, Cmax and AUC increased by 7-fold and 10-fold, respectively, when administered with ciprofloxacin during pharmacokinetic trials.
Clemastine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like sedating h1-blockers can cause additive CNS depression.
clonazePAM: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like the benzodiazepines can cause additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given.
cloNIDine: (Major) The use of tizanidine with other alpha 2-adrenergic agonists (such as central-acting adrenergic agonist antihypertensive agents) should be avoided because hypotensive effects may be cumulative. Tizanidine is an alpha 2-adrenergic agonist that can produce hypotension. Syncope has been reported in the postmarketing setting.
Clorazepate: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like the benzodiazepines can cause additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given.
Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with tizanidine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with tizanidine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking tizanidine.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with tizanidine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with tizanidine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking tizanidine.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with tizanidine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with tizanidine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking tizanidine.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with tizanidine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with tizanidine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking tizanidine.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with tizanidine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with tizanidine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking tizanidine.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with tizanidine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with tizanidine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking tizanidine.
COMT inhibitors: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as tizanidine, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Conjugated Estrogens: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tizanidine and estrogens as increased tizanidine exposure may occur. If use together is necessary, initiate tizanidine at 2 mg and increase by 2 to 4 mg/day based on clinical response. Discontinue tizanidine if hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occurs. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are weak CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Conjugated Estrogens; Bazedoxifene: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tizanidine and estrogens as increased tizanidine exposure may occur. If use together is necessary, initiate tizanidine at 2 mg and increase by 2 to 4 mg/day based on clinical response. Discontinue tizanidine if hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occurs. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are weak CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Conjugated Estrogens; medroxyPROGESTERone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tizanidine and estrogens as increased tizanidine exposure may occur. If use together is necessary, initiate tizanidine at 2 mg and increase by 2 to 4 mg/day based on clinical response. Discontinue tizanidine if hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occurs. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are weak CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Cyproheptadine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like sedating h1-blockers can cause additive CNS depression.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tizanidine and ethinyl estradiol as increased tizanidine exposure may occur. If use together is necessary, initiate tizanidine at 2 mg and increase by 2 to 4 mg/day based on clinical response. Discontinue tizanidine if hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occurs. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use has been observed to increase tizanidine overall exposure by 3.9-fold.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tizanidine and ethinyl estradiol as increased tizanidine exposure may occur. If use together is necessary, initiate tizanidine at 2 mg and increase by 2 to 4 mg/day based on clinical response. Discontinue tizanidine if hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occurs. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use has been observed to increase tizanidine overall exposure by 3.9-fold.
Deutetrabenazine: (Moderate) Use tizanidine and deutetrabenazine together with caution due to additive CNS depression. Monitor patients for symptoms of excess sedation.
Dexchlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like sedating h1-blockers can cause additive CNS depression.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like sedating h1-blockers can cause additive CNS depression.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Moderate) Due to the anesthetic effects of dexmedetomidine, concurrent use with other CNS depressants, such as skeletal muscle relaxants, could result in additive sedative effects and possibly prolong recovery from anesthesia.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of diphenhydramine and tizanidine due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like the benzodiazepines can cause additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given.
Diazoxide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tizanidine and diazoxide. If use together is necessary, initiate tizanidine at 2 mg and increase by 2 to 4 mg/day based on clinical response. Discontinue tizanidine if hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occurs. Concomitant use may increase tizanidine overall exposure and increase the risk for hypotension. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate, diazoxide is a weak CYP1A2 inhibitor, and both medications may lower blood pressure.
Dienogest; Estradiol valerate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tizanidine and estrogens as increased tizanidine exposure may occur. If use together is necessary, initiate tizanidine at 2 mg and increase by 2 to 4 mg/day based on clinical response. Discontinue tizanidine if hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occurs. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are weak CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Difelikefalin: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
dimenhyDRINATE: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of dimenhydrinate and tizanidine due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of diphenhydramine and tizanidine due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of diphenhydramine and tizanidine due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of diphenhydramine and tizanidine due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of diphenhydramine and tizanidine due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy.
Doxazosin: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy.
Doxylamine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of doxylamine and tizanidine due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Doxylamine; Pyridoxine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of doxylamine and tizanidine due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of dronabinol with other CNS depressants, like tizanidine, can potentiate the effects of dronabinol on respiratory depression.
Drospirenone; Estradiol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tizanidine and estrogens as increased tizanidine exposure may occur. If use together is necessary, initiate tizanidine at 2 mg and increase by 2 to 4 mg/day based on clinical response. Discontinue tizanidine if hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occurs. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are weak CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tizanidine and ethinyl estradiol as increased tizanidine exposure may occur. If use together is necessary, initiate tizanidine at 2 mg and increase by 2 to 4 mg/day based on clinical response. Discontinue tizanidine if hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occurs. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use has been observed to increase tizanidine overall exposure by 3.9-fold.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tizanidine and ethinyl estradiol as increased tizanidine exposure may occur. If use together is necessary, initiate tizanidine at 2 mg and increase by 2 to 4 mg/day based on clinical response. Discontinue tizanidine if hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occurs. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use has been observed to increase tizanidine overall exposure by 3.9-fold.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tizanidine and estrogens as increased tizanidine exposure may occur. If use together is necessary, initiate tizanidine at 2 mg and increase by 2 to 4 mg/day based on clinical response. Discontinue tizanidine if hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occurs. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are weak CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Emapalumab: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of tizanidine and adjust the dose as needed during coadministration with emapalumab. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate with a narrow therapeutic range. Emapalumab may normalize CYP450 activity, which may decrease the efficacy of drugs that are CYP450 substrates due to increased metabolism.
Enalapril, Enalaprilat: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and tizanidine use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Enasidenib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of tizanidine and enasidenib is contraindicated due to the risk of tizanidine toxicity, including clinically significant hypotension, bradycardia, and sedation. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate and enasidenib is a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration with other strong CYP1A2 inhibitors increased the exposure of tizanidine by 10 and 33-fold.
Entacapone: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as tizanidine, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Eplerenone: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy.
Epoprostenol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy.
Esketamine: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and skeletal muscle relaxants for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Patients who receive a dose of esketamine should not drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Esmolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy.
Estazolam: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like the benzodiazepines can cause additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given.
Esterified Estrogens: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tizanidine and estrogens as increased tizanidine exposure may occur. If use together is necessary, initiate tizanidine at 2 mg and increase by 2 to 4 mg/day based on clinical response. Discontinue tizanidine if hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occurs. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are weak CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Esterified Estrogens; methylTESTOSTERone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tizanidine and estrogens as increased tizanidine exposure may occur. If use together is necessary, initiate tizanidine at 2 mg and increase by 2 to 4 mg/day based on clinical response. Discontinue tizanidine if hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occurs. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are weak CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Estradiol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tizanidine and estrogens as increased tizanidine exposure may occur. If use together is necessary, initiate tizanidine at 2 mg and increase by 2 to 4 mg/day based on clinical response. Discontinue tizanidine if hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occurs. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are weak CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Estradiol; Levonorgestrel: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tizanidine and estrogens as increased tizanidine exposure may occur. If use together is necessary, initiate tizanidine at 2 mg and increase by 2 to 4 mg/day based on clinical response. Discontinue tizanidine if hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occurs. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are weak CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Estradiol; Norethindrone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tizanidine and estrogens as increased tizanidine exposure may occur. If use together is necessary, initiate tizanidine at 2 mg and increase by 2 to 4 mg/day based on clinical response. Discontinue tizanidine if hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occurs. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are weak CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Estradiol; Norgestimate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tizanidine and estrogens as increased tizanidine exposure may occur. If use together is necessary, initiate tizanidine at 2 mg and increase by 2 to 4 mg/day based on clinical response. Discontinue tizanidine if hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occurs. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are weak CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Estradiol; Progesterone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tizanidine and estrogens as increased tizanidine exposure may occur. If use together is necessary, initiate tizanidine at 2 mg and increase by 2 to 4 mg/day based on clinical response. Discontinue tizanidine if hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occurs. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are weak CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Estrogens (selected): (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tizanidine and estrogens as increased tizanidine exposure may occur. If use together is necessary, initiate tizanidine at 2 mg and increase by 2 to 4 mg/day based on clinical response. Discontinue tizanidine if hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occurs. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are weak CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Eszopiclone: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of tizanidine with anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression. A reduction in the dose of these medications may be considered to minimize additive sedative effects, if they occur. With hypnotic medications, the risk of next-day psychomotor impairment is increased during co-administration of other CNS depressants, which may decrease the ability to perform tasks requiring full mental alertness such as driving.
Ethacrynic Acid: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant loop diuretic and tizanidine use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Ethanol: (Major) Advise patients to avoid alcohol-containing beverages while taking tizanidine. Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants can cause additive CNS depression and hypotension. Alcohol also increases the overall amount of drug in the bloodstream after a dose of tizanidine. Alcohol increases the AUC and Cmax of tizanidine by about 20% and 15%, respectively, resulting in an increase in side effects associated with tizanidine.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tizanidine and ethinyl estradiol as increased tizanidine exposure may occur. If use together is necessary, initiate tizanidine at 2 mg and increase by 2 to 4 mg/day based on clinical response. Discontinue tizanidine if hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occurs. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use has been observed to increase tizanidine overall exposure by 3.9-fold.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tizanidine and ethinyl estradiol as increased tizanidine exposure may occur. If use together is necessary, initiate tizanidine at 2 mg and increase by 2 to 4 mg/day based on clinical response. Discontinue tizanidine if hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occurs. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use has been observed to increase tizanidine overall exposure by 3.9-fold.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tizanidine and ethinyl estradiol as increased tizanidine exposure may occur. If use together is necessary, initiate tizanidine at 2 mg and increase by 2 to 4 mg/day based on clinical response. Discontinue tizanidine if hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occurs. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use has been observed to increase tizanidine overall exposure by 3.9-fold.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tizanidine and ethinyl estradiol as increased tizanidine exposure may occur. If use together is necessary, initiate tizanidine at 2 mg and increase by 2 to 4 mg/day based on clinical response. Discontinue tizanidine if hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occurs. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use has been observed to increase tizanidine overall exposure by 3.9-fold.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tizanidine and ethinyl estradiol as increased tizanidine exposure may occur. If use together is necessary, initiate tizanidine at 2 mg and increase by 2 to 4 mg/day based on clinical response. Discontinue tizanidine if hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occurs. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use has been observed to increase tizanidine overall exposure by 3.9-fold.
Famotidine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tizanidine and famotidine as increased tizanidine exposure may occur. If use together is necessary, initiate tizanidine at 2 mg and increase by 2 to 4 mg per day based on clinical response. Discontinue tizanidine if hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occurs.
Fenfluramine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of fenfluramine and tizanidine. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Fenoldopam: (Moderate) Monitor for hypotension during concomitant use of tizanidine and fenoldopam. Both medications may lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
fentaNYL: (Major) Concomitant use of fentanyl with a skeletal muscle relaxant may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with a skeletal muscle relaxant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tizanidine and fexinidazole as increased tizanidine exposure may occur. If use together is necessary, initiate tizanidine at 2 mg and increase by 2 to 4 mg/day based on clinical response. Discontinue tizanidine if hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occurs. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor.
fluPHENAZine: (Moderate) Use tizanidine and fluphenazine together with caution due to additive CNS depression. Monitor patients for symptoms of excess sedation.
Flurazepam: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like the benzodiazepines can cause additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given.
fluvoxaMINE: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of tizanidine and fluvoxamine is contraindicated due to the risk of tizanidine toxicity, including clinically significant hypotension, bradycardia, and sedation. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate and fluvoxamine is a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor. After a single 4 mg tizanidine dose, Cmax, AUC, and half-life increased by 12-fold, 33--fold, and 3-fold, respectively, when administered with fluvoxamine during pharmacokinetic trials.
Food: (Major) Advise patients to avoid cannabis use while taking CNS depressants due to the risk for additive CNS depression and potential for other cognitive adverse reactions.
Fosinopril: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and tizanidine use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Fosphenytoin: (Minor) One case of increased phenytoin serum concentrations and associated drowsiness has been reported with the addition of tizanidine therapy. The mechanism and significance of this potential interaction with phenytoin or fosphenytoin is unknown.
Furosemide: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant loop diuretic and tizanidine use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Gabapentin: (Major) Initiate gabapentin at the lowest recommended dose and monitor patients for symptoms of sedation and somnolence during coadministration of gabapentin and tizanidine. Concomitant use of gabapentin with tizanidine may cause additive CNS depression. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Givosiran: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of givosiran and tizanidine due to the risk of increased tizanidine-related adverse reactions. If use is necessary, consider decreasing the tizanidine dose. Tizanidine is a sensitive CYP1A2 substrate. Givosiran may moderately reduce hepatic CYP1A2 enzyme activity because of its pharmacological effects on the hepatic heme biosynthesis pathway.
guanFACINE: (Major) The use of tizanidine with other alpha 2-adrenergic agonists (such as central-acting adrenergic agonist antihypertensive agents) should be avoided because hypotensive effects may be cumulative. Tizanidine is an alpha 2-adrenergic agonist that can produce hypotension. Syncope has been reported in the postmarketing setting.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with tizanidine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with tizanidine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking tizanidine.
hydrALAZINE: (Moderate) Monitor for hypotension during concomitant use of tizanidine and hydralazine. Both medications may lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
hydrALAZINE; Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Monitor for hypotension during concomitant use of tizanidine and hydralazine. Both medications may lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and tizanidine use due to risk for additive hypotension.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and tizanidine use due to risk for additive hypotension.
HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with tizanidine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with tizanidine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking tizanidine.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with tizanidine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with tizanidine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking tizanidine.
HYDROmorphone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with tizanidine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with tizanidine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations.
hydrOXYzine: (Major) Use tizanidine and hydroxyzine together with caution due to additive CNS depression. Consider tizanidine dosage reduction and monitor patients for symptoms of excess sedation.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tizanidine and famotidine as increased tizanidine exposure may occur. If use together is necessary, initiate tizanidine at 2 mg and increase by 2 to 4 mg per day based on clinical response. Discontinue tizanidine if hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occurs.
Iloprost: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy.
Indapamide: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. This may be desirable, but occasionally orthostatic hypotension may occur. Dosages should be adjusted based on clinical response.
Irbesartan: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and tizanidine use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Labetalol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy.
Landiolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy.
Lasmiditan: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lasmiditan and tizanidine. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Leflunomide: (Moderate) Closely monitor for reduced efficacy of tizanidine if coadministered with leflunomide. An adjustment of the tizanidine dose may be required. Following oral administration, leflunomide is metabolized to an active metabolite, teriflunomide, which is responsible for essentially all of leflunomide's in vivo activity. In vivo data suggest that teriflunomide is a weak inducer of CYP1A2. Coadministration of teriflunomide with CYP1A2 substrates, such as tizanidine, may decrease tizanidine exposure and lead to a reduction in efficacy.
Lemborexant: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lemborexant and tizanidine. Dosage adjustments of lemborexant and tizanidine may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if lemborexant is taken with other CNS depressants.
Levobunolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tizanidine and ethinyl estradiol as increased tizanidine exposure may occur. If use together is necessary, initiate tizanidine at 2 mg and increase by 2 to 4 mg/day based on clinical response. Discontinue tizanidine if hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occurs. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use has been observed to increase tizanidine overall exposure by 3.9-fold.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tizanidine and ethinyl estradiol as increased tizanidine exposure may occur. If use together is necessary, initiate tizanidine at 2 mg and increase by 2 to 4 mg/day based on clinical response. Discontinue tizanidine if hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occurs. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use has been observed to increase tizanidine overall exposure by 3.9-fold.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tizanidine and ethinyl estradiol as increased tizanidine exposure may occur. If use together is necessary, initiate tizanidine at 2 mg and increase by 2 to 4 mg/day based on clinical response. Discontinue tizanidine if hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occurs. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use has been observed to increase tizanidine overall exposure by 3.9-fold.
Levorphanol: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of opioids, such as levorphanol, with other CNS depressants, such as tizanidine. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the initial levorphanol dose by 50%, use the lowest possible dose of both medications for the shortest possible duration, monitor for adverse effects, and consider the use naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Concomitant use increases the risk for CNS depression and related adverse effects, such as respiratory depression, and opioid overdose.
Lisinopril: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and tizanidine use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Lofexidine: (Moderate) Use tizanidine and lofexidine together with caution due to additive CNS depression. Monitor patients for symptoms of excess sedation and hypotension.
Loop diuretics: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant loop diuretic and tizanidine use due to risk for additive hypotension.
LORazepam: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like the benzodiazepines can cause additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given.
Losartan: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and tizanidine use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Loxapine: (Moderate) Loxapine is a central nervous system (CNS) depressant. The concurrent use of loxapine with other CNS depressants (e.g., muscle relaxants such as tizanidine) can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and syncope. Therefore, consider reducing the dose of CNS depressants if used concomitantly with loxapine.
Lumateperone: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lumateperone and tizanidine. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Lurasidone: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants can cause additive CNS depression. These agents include but are not limited to: antipsychotics.
Mecamylamine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy.
Meclizine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like sedating h1-blockers can cause additive CNS depression.
Meperidine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with tizanidine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with tizanidine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations.
Meprobamate: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of tizanidine with anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression. A reduction in the dose of these medications may be considered to minimize additive sedative effects, if they occur. With hypnotic medications, the risk of next-day psychomotor impairment is increased during co-administration of other CNS depressants, which may decrease the ability to perform tasks requiring full mental alertness such as driving.
Methadone: (Major) Concomitant use of methadone with a skeletal muscle relaxant may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with a skeletal muscle relaxant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Methohexital: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like barbiturates can cause additive CNS depression.
Methscopolamine: (Moderate) CNS depression can be increased when methscopolamine is combined with other CNS depressants such as skeletal muscle relaxants.
Methyldopa: (Major) The use of tizanidine with other alpha 2-adrenergic agonists (such as central-acting adrenergic agonist antihypertensive agents) should be avoided because hypotensive effects may be cumulative. Tizanidine is an alpha 2-adrenergic agonist that can produce hypotension. Syncope has been reported in the postmarketing setting.
metOLazone: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and tizanidine use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Metoprolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and tizanidine use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Mexiletine: (Major) Tizanidine is primarily metabolized by CYP1A2. If possible, avoid the concurrent use of tizanidine with other CYP1A2 inhibitors, such as mexiletine, as concurrent use could lead to substantial increases in tizanidine blood concentrations. If concurrent use cannot be avoided, initiate tizanidine therapy with the 2 mg dose and increase in 2 to 4 mg increments daily based on patient response to therapy. Discontinue tizanidine if hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occur.
Midazolam: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like the benzodiazepines can cause additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given.
Minoxidil: (Moderate) Monitor for hypotension during concomitant use of tizanidine and minoxidil. Both medications may lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Moexipril: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy.
Molindone: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and antipsychotics like molindone can cause additive CNS depression.
Morphine: (Major) Concomitant use of morphine with a skeletal muscle relaxant may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with a skeletal muscle relaxant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. For extended-release morphine tablets (MS Contin and Morphabond), start with 15 mg every 12 hours. Morphine; naltrexone should be initiated at 1/3 to 1/2 the recommended starting dosage. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Nadolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy.
Nalbuphine: (Major) Concomitant use of nalbuphine with tizanidine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of nalbuphine with tizanidine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations.
Nebivolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy.
Nitroprusside: (Moderate) Monitor for hypotension during concomitant use of tizanidine and nitroprusside. Both medications may lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tizanidine and ethinyl estradiol as increased tizanidine exposure may occur. If use together is necessary, initiate tizanidine at 2 mg and increase by 2 to 4 mg/day based on clinical response. Discontinue tizanidine if hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occurs. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use has been observed to increase tizanidine overall exposure by 3.9-fold.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tizanidine and ethinyl estradiol as increased tizanidine exposure may occur. If use together is necessary, initiate tizanidine at 2 mg and increase by 2 to 4 mg/day based on clinical response. Discontinue tizanidine if hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occurs. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use has been observed to increase tizanidine overall exposure by 3.9-fold.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tizanidine and ethinyl estradiol as increased tizanidine exposure may occur. If use together is necessary, initiate tizanidine at 2 mg and increase by 2 to 4 mg/day based on clinical response. Discontinue tizanidine if hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occurs. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use has been observed to increase tizanidine overall exposure by 3.9-fold.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tizanidine and ethinyl estradiol as increased tizanidine exposure may occur. If use together is necessary, initiate tizanidine at 2 mg and increase by 2 to 4 mg/day based on clinical response. Discontinue tizanidine if hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occurs. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use has been observed to increase tizanidine overall exposure by 3.9-fold.
Obeticholic Acid: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tizanidine and obeticholic acid as increased tizanidine exposure may occur. If use together is necessary, initiate tizanidine at 2 mg and increase by 2 to 4 mg/day based on clinical response. Discontinue tizanidine if hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occurs. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate and obeticholic acid is a weak CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Oliceridine: (Major) Concomitant use of oliceridine with tizanidine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of oliceridine with tizanidine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Olmesartan: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and tizanidine use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and tizanidine use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Opicapone: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as tizanidine, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Osilodrostat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tizanidine and osilodrostat as increased tizanidine exposure may occur. If use together is necessary, initiate tizanidine at 2 mg and increase by 2 to 4 mg/day based on clinical response. Discontinue tizanidine if hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occurs. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate and osilodrostat is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Oxazepam: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like the benzodiazepines can cause additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given.
oxyCODONE: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with tizanidine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with tizanidine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Reduce the initial oxycodone dosage by one-third to one-half when using the extended-release tablets.
oxyMORphone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with tizanidine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with tizanidine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Reduce the initial oxymorphone dosage by one-third to one-half.
Pacritinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tizanidine and pacritinib as increased tizanidine exposure may occur. If use together is necessary, initiate tizanidine at 2 mg and increase by 2 to 4 mg/day based on clinical response. Discontinue tizanidine if hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occurs. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate and pacritinib is a weak CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Peginterferon Alfa-2b: (Major) Tizanidine is primarily metabolized by CYP1A2. The presystemic availability of tizanidine has been shown to be substantially increased by coadministration with CYP1A2 inhibitors, such as peginterferon alfa-2b. Average increases in tizanidine AUC of 10-fold and 33-fold have been reported following administration of strong CYP1A2 inhibitors. These increases in tizanidine concentrations have been associated with significant hypotensive and sedative effects. The use of potent CYP1A2 inhibitors with tizanidine is contraindicated. If possible, avoid the concurrent use of tizanidine with other CYP1A2 inhibitors, as concurrent use could lead to substantial increases in tizanidine blood concentrations. Discontinue tizanidine if hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occur.
Pentazocine; Naloxone: (Major) Concomitant use of pentazocine with tizanidine may cause respiratory depression, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of pentazocine with tizanidine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
PENTobarbital: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like barbiturates can cause additive CNS depression.
Perindopril: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy.
PHENobarbital: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like barbiturates can cause additive CNS depression.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like barbiturates can cause additive CNS depression.
Phenoxybenzamine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy.
Phentolamine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy.
Phenytoin: (Minor) One case of increased phenytoin serum concentrations and associated drowsiness has been reported with the addition of tizanidine therapy. The mechanism and significance of this potential interaction with phenytoin is unknown.
Pindolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy.
Potassium-sparing diuretics: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant potassium-sparing diuretic and tizanidine use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Prazosin: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy.
Pregabalin: (Major) Initiate pregabalin at the lowest recommended dose and monitor patients for symptoms of sedation and somnolence during coadministration of pregabalin and tizanidine. Concomitant use of pregabalin with tizanidine may cause additive CNS depression. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Primaquine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tizanidine and primaquine as increased tizanidine exposure may occur. If use together is necessary, initiate tizanidine at 2 mg and increase by 2 to 4 mg/day based on clinical response. Discontinue tizanidine if hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occurs. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate and primaquine is a weak CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Primidone: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like barbiturates can cause additive CNS depression.
Propafenone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tizanidine and propafenone as increased tizanidine exposure may occur. If use together is necessary, initiate tizanidine at 2 mg and increase by 2 to 4 mg/day based on clinical response. Discontinue tizanidine if hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occurs. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate and propafenone is a weak CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like sedating h1-blockers can cause additive CNS depression.
Quazepam: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like the benzodiazepines can cause additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given.
Quinapril: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and tizanidine use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Ramelteon: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like ramelteon can cause additive CNS depression.
Ramipril: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tizanidine and estrogens as increased tizanidine exposure may occur. If use together is necessary, initiate tizanidine at 2 mg and increase by 2 to 4 mg/day based on clinical response. Discontinue tizanidine if hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occurs. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate and estrogens are weak CYP1A2 inhibitors.
Remifentanil: (Major) Concomitant use of remifentanil with a skeletal muscle relaxant may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with a skeletal muscle relaxant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Remimazolam: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like the benzodiazepines can cause additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given.
Ritlecitinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tizanidine and ritlecitinib as increased tizanidine exposure may occur. If use together is necessary, initiate tizanidine at 2 mg and increase by 2 to 4 mg/day based on clinical response. Discontinue tizanidine if hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occurs. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Rucaparib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tizanidine with rucaparib if possible due the risk of increased plasma concentrations of tizanidine. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor for an increase in tizanidine-related adverse reactions (e.g., hypotension, bradycardia, excessive drowsiness). Tizanidine is a sensitive CYP1A2 substrate and rucaparib is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Sacubitril; Valsartan: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy.
Sarilumab: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of tizanidine if coadministered with sarilumab. Inhibition of IL-6 signaling by sarilmuab may restore CYP450 activities to higher levels leading to increased metabolism of drugs that are CYP450 substrates compared to metabolism prior to treatment. Therefore, CYP450 substrates with a narrow therapeutic index, such as tizanidine, may have fluctuations in drug levels and therapeutic effect when sarilumab therapy is started or discontinued. This effect on CYP450 enzyme activity may persist for several weeks after stopping sarilumab. In vitro, sarilumab has the potential to affect expression of multiple CYP enzymes, including CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, and CYP3A4. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate and narrow therapeutic index drug.
Secobarbital: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like barbiturates can cause additive CNS depression.
Secukinumab: (Moderate) If secukinumab is initiated or discontinued in a patient taking tizanidine, monitor for altered patient response to tizanidine; tizanidine dose adjustments may be needed. The formation of CYP450 enzymes may be altered by increased concentrations of cytokines during chronic inflammation. Thus, the formation of CYP450 enzymes could be normalized during secukinumab administration. In theory, clinically relevant drug interactions may occur with CYP450 substrates that have a narrow therapeutic index such as tizanidine.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tizanidine and ethinyl estradiol as increased tizanidine exposure may occur. If use together is necessary, initiate tizanidine at 2 mg and increase by 2 to 4 mg/day based on clinical response. Discontinue tizanidine if hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occurs. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use has been observed to increase tizanidine overall exposure by 3.9-fold.
Siltuximab: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of tizanidine if coadministered with siltuximab. Inhibition of IL-6 signaling by siltuximab may restore CYP450 activities to higher levels leading to increased metabolism of drugs that are CYP450 substrates compared to metabolism prior to treatment. Therefore, CYP450 substrates with a narrow therapeutic index, such as tizanidine, may have fluctuations in drug levels and therapeutic effect when siltuximab therapy is started or discontinued. This effect on CYP450 enzyme activity may persist for several weeks after stopping siltuximab. In vitro, siltuximab has the potential to affect expression of multiple CYP enzymes, including CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, and CYP3A4. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate and narrow therapeutic index drug.
Spironolactone: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant potassium-sparing diuretic and tizanidine use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant potassium-sparing diuretic and tizanidine use due to risk for additive hypotension. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and tizanidine use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Stiripentol: (Moderate) Consider a dose adjustment of tizanidine when coadministered with stiripentol. Coadministration may alter plasma concentrations of tizanidine resulting in an increased risk of adverse reactions and/or decreased efficacy. Additive somnolence and sedation may occur. Tizanidine is a sensitive CYP1A2 substrate. In vitro data predicts inhibition or induction of CYP1A2 by stiripentol potentially resulting in clinically significant interactions.
SUFentanil: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with skeletal muscle relaxants may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with skeletal muscle relaxants to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a skeletal muscle relaxant, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a skeletal muscle relaxant is prescribed for a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the skeletal muscle relaxant and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Tapentadol: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with tizanidine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with tizanidine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations.
Telmisartan: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy. (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. This may be desirable, but occasionally orthostatic hypotension may occur. Dosages should be adjusted based on clinical response.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and tizanidine use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Temazepam: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like the benzodiazepines can cause additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given.
Terazosin: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy.
Teriflunomide: (Moderate) Use caution when administering teriflunomide and tizanidine concurrently. In vivo data suggest that teriflunomide is a weak inducer of CYP1A2. Coadministration of teriflunomide with CYP1A2 substrates, such as tizanidine, may decrease tizanidine exposure and lead to a reduction in efficacy.
Thalidomide: (Moderate) Thalidomide frequently causes drowsiness and somnolence and may enhance the sedative activity of tizanidine.
Thiazide diuretics: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and tizanidine use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Thiothixene: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and antipsychotics like thiothixene can cause additive CNS depression.
Timolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy.
Tocilizumab: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of tizanidine if coadministered with tocilizumab. An adjustment of tizanidine dose may be required. Inhibition of IL-6 signaling by tocilizumab may restore CYP450 activities to higher levels leading to increased metabolism of drugs that are CYP450 substrates compared to metabolism prior to treatment. Therefore, CYP450 substrates with a narrow therapeutic index, such as tizanidine, may have fluctuations in drug levels and therapeutic effect when tocilizumab therapy is started or discontinued. This effect on CYP450 enzyme activity may persist for several weeks after stopping tocilizumab. In vitro, tocilizumab has the potential to affect expression of multiple CYP enzymes, including CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, and CYP3A4. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate and narrow therapeutic index drug.
Tolcapone: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as tizanidine, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Torsemide: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant loop diuretic and tizanidine use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Tradipitant: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
traMADol: (Major) Concomitant use of tramadol with a skeletal muscle relaxant may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with a skeletal muscle relaxant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Major) Concomitant use of tramadol with a skeletal muscle relaxant may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with a skeletal muscle relaxant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. (Minor) Tizanidine delays the time to attain peak concentrations of acetaminophen by about 16 minutes. The clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Trandolapril: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tizanidine and verapamil as increased tizanidine exposure may occur. If use together is necessary, initiate tizanidine at 2 mg and increase by 2 to 4 mg/day based on clinical response. Discontinue tizanidine if hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occurs. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate and verapamil is a weak CYP1A2 inhibitor. (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy.
Treprostinil: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy.
Triamterene: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant potassium-sparing diuretic and tizanidine use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant potassium-sparing diuretic and tizanidine use due to risk for additive hypotension. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and tizanidine use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Triazolam: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like the benzodiazepines can cause additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given.
Triprolidine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like sedating h1-blockers can cause additive CNS depression.
Valerian, Valeriana officinalis: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with the phytomedicinal valerian, Valeriana officinalis can cause additive CNS depression.
Valsartan: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and tizanidine use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Vemurafenib: (Major) Avoid the use of vemurafenib with tizanidine; the tizanidine Cmax and AUC values were significantly increased when these agents were coadministered in a drug interaction study. If concomitant use of these drugs is required, initiate tizanidine at the 2-mg dose and increase in 2- to 4-mg increments daily based on the patient response. Monitor patients closely for tizanidine toxicity; if adverse reactions such as hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occur, reduce or discontinue tizanidine therapy. Vemurafenib is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor and tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate with a narrow therapeutic index. In a drug interaction study (n = 16), the tizanidine Cmax increased 2.2-fold and the tizanidine AUC value increased 4.7-fold when a single 2-mg PO dose of tizanidine was given following 21 days of vemurafenib 960 mg PO twice daily in cancer patients.
Verapamil: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tizanidine and verapamil as increased tizanidine exposure may occur. If use together is necessary, initiate tizanidine at 2 mg and increase by 2 to 4 mg/day based on clinical response. Discontinue tizanidine if hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occurs. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate and verapamil is a weak CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Viloxazine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of viloxazine and tizanidine is contraindicated due to the increased risk for tizanidine-related adverse effects and exposure. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate and viloxazine is a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration with other strong CYP1A2 inhibitors increased the exposure of tizanidine by 10 and 33-fold.
Zaleplon: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of tizanidine with anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression. A reduction in the dose of these medications may be considered to minimize additive sedative effects, if they occur. With hypnotic medications, the risk of next-day psychomotor impairment is increased during co-administration of other CNS depressants, which may decrease the ability to perform tasks requiring full mental alertness such as driving.
Zileuton: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tizanidine and zileuton as increased tizanidine exposure may occur. If use together is necessary, initiate tizanidine at 2 mg and increase by 2 to 4 mg/day based on clinical response. Discontinue tizanidine if hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occurs. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate and zileuton is a weak CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Zolpidem: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of tizanidine with anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression. A reduction in the dose of these medications may be considered to minimize additive sedative effects, if they occur. With hypnotic medications, the risk of next-day psychomotor impairment is increased during co-administration of other CNS depressants, which may decrease the ability to perform tasks requiring full mental alertness such as driving.
Zuranolone: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  Adverse effects due to tizanidine are common and frequently are dose-related. Adverse events generally correlate with the pharmacological properties of tizanidine, a central-acting alpha2-adrenergic agonist. The adverse events most frequently leading to discontinuation of tizanidine in controlled clinical trials were: asthenia (defined as weakness, fatigue and/or tiredness) (3%), sedation or drowsiness (3%), xerostomia (dry mouth) (3%), increased spasm or tone (2%), and dizziness (2%). Overall, tizanidine or placebo treatments was discontinued due to adverse events in 17% versus 5% of patients, respectively. The most common adverse effects (>10%) which occurred in three controlled clinical trials with tizanidine at a frequency exceeding placebo included: xerostomia (49% vs. 10%), sedation (somnolence or drowsiness) (48% vs. 10%), asthenia (41% vs. 16%), and dizziness (16% vs. 4%). These four adverse event categories were rated by the patients to be mild-moderate (75%) or severe (25%). In 10% of the tizanidine-treated cases, sedation was rated to be severe compared to = 8 mg) or total daily dosage >= 24 mg/day is limited, only those adverse events with a relatively high incidence are likely to have been identified. Approximately 75 patients have been exposed to individual doses of >= 12 mg for at least one year and approximately 80 patients have been exposed to total daily doses of 30—36 mg/day for at least one year. There is virtually no long-term experience with single, daytime doses of 16 mg. Due to dose-related adverse effects, the dose should be titrated to the lowest tolerated dose which controls spasticity.Dose-related hypotension occurred relatively frequently in patients treated with single oral doses of 8 mg (16%) or 16 mg (33%) of tizanidine (0% placebo). Hypotension were also more severe in the 16 mg group. In a single dose study where blood pressure was monitored closely after dosing, two-thirds of patients treated with 8 mg of tizanidine had a 20% reduction in either the diastolic or systolic BP. The reduction was seen within 1 hour after dosing, peaked 2 to 3 hours after dosing and was associated, at times, with sinus bradycardia, orthostatic hypotension, lightheadedness or dizziness and rarely syncope. The hypotensive effect is dose-related. The chance of significant hypotension may possibly be minimized by titration of the dose and by monitoring for signs and symptoms of orthostatic effects or hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy (see Drug Interactions). Bradycardia occurred in 2% and 10% of patients receiving 8 mg or 16 mg, respectively (0% placebo). QT prolongation and bradycardia have been noted in canine chronic toxicity studies at doses equal to the maximum human dose on a mg/m2 basis; however, ECG evaluation has not performed in the controlled clinical studies. Infrequent cardiac reactions included: arrhythmia exacerbation (<=1%) and rare (<=0.1%) cases of angina, coronary artery disorder, heart failure, myocardial infarction, ventricular extrasystoles, ventricular tachycardia.Other frequent (2—10%) adverse events which occurred more often with tizanidine therapy than placebo (without regard to causality) included: urinary tract infection (10% vs. 7%), infection (6% vs. 5%), constipation (4% vs. 1%), nausea/vomiting (3% vs. 0%), speech disorder (3% vs. 0%), amblyopia (blurred vision) (3% vs. <1%), urinary frequency (3% vs. 2%), flu syndrome (3% vs. 2%), dyskinesia (3% vs. 0%), nervousness (excitability) (3% vs. <1%), pharyngitis (3% vs. 1%), and rhinitis (3% vs. 2%). Less frequent adverse (<= 1%) experiences reported without regard to causality are detailed in the prescribing information for tizanidine.Tizanidine use has been associated with hallucinations. In two controlled clinical studies, formed/visual hallucinations or delusions have been reported within the first 6 weeks of therapy in 5 of 170 tizanidine-treated patients (3%). These 5 cases occurred within the first 6 weeks. Most of the patients were aware that the events were unreal. One patient developed psychosis in association with hallucinations.Dermatological adverse events may occur with tizanidine. Rash (unspecified) is reported in <=1% patients. Exfoliative dermatitis has been reported rarely (< 0.1%).Dose-related retinal degeneration and corneal opacities have been reported in animals at doses similar to the maximum recommended human dose (mg/m2). No cases of corneal opacities or retinal degeneration were observed in clinical trials.Tizanidine occasionally causes hepatotoxicity, most often hepatocellular in type. In controlled clinical studies, approximately 5% of patients treated with tizanidine had elevated hepatic enzymes (ALT or AST) compared to 0.4% in the control patients. Most cases resolved rapidly upon drug discontinuation with no residual problems. In occasional symptomatic cases, nausea, vomiting, anorexia and jaundice have been reported. Cholelithiasis has also been reported infrequently (<=1%). One case report describes elevated hepatic enzymes during therapy with 36 mg/day tizanidine, which improved upon drug discontinuation and recurred upon drug re-challenge. In post-marketing experience, three deaths associated with liver failure have been reported in patients treated with tizanidine. In one case, a 49 year-old male developed jaundice and liver enlargement following 2 months of tizanidine treatment, primarily at 6 mg three times daily. A liver biopsy showed multilobular hepatic necrosis without eosinophilic infiltration. Treatment was discontinued and the patient died in hepatic coma 10 days later; other explanations for hepatotoxicity were ruled out. In the two other cases, patients were taking other drugs with known potential for hepatotoxicity. One patient, treated with tizanidine at a dose of 4 mg/day, was also on carbamazepine when he developed cholestatic jaundice after 2 months of treatment; this patient died with pneumonia about 20 days later. Another patient, treated with tizanidine for 11 days, and was also treated with dantrolene for about 2 weeks prior to developing fatal fulminant hepatic failure. Monitoring of aminotransferase levels is recommended during the first 6 months of treatment (e.g., baseline, 1, 3 and 6 months) and periodically thereafter, based on clinical status. Because of the potential toxic hepatic effect of tizanidine, the drug should only be used with extreme caution in patients with impaired hepatic function.Tizanidine is closely related to clonidine, which is often abused in combination with opiate agonists and is known to cause symptoms of rebound upon abrupt discontinuation. Three cases of rebound symptoms on sudden discontinuation of tizanidine have been reported. The case reports suggest that these patients were also misusing opiate agonists. Withdrawal symptoms included hypertension, tachycardia, hypertonia, tremor, and anxiety. As with clonidine, withdrawal is expected to be more likely in cases where high doses are used, especially for prolonged periods.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    asthenia, fatigue, infection, influenza, weakness
    General Information
    Adverse effects due to tizanidine are frequently are dose-related and generally correlate with the pharmacological properties of tizanidine. Asthenia (a dose-related effect defined as weakness, fatigue and/or tiredness) occurred in 41% to 78% of tizanidine recipients during multiple and single dose placebo-controlled studies, compared to 16% to 40% among placebo recipients. Asthenia was rated by the recipients to be mild-moderate (75%) or severe (25%). Other systemic effects noted across all clinical studies of tizanidine include influenza (3%) and unspecified infection (6%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      influenza
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      weakness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hypotension, syncope
    General Information
    Tizanidine is a central alpha2-adrenergic agonist that can produce hypotension. Syncope has been reported in the postmarketing setting. Dose-related hypotension occurred relatively frequently in adults treated with single oral doses of 8 mg (16%) or 16 mg (33%) of tizanidine (0% placebo) in clinical studies. Hypotension was more severe in the 16 mg/dose group. Monitor blood pressure for hypotension, particularly in people at risk of hypotension such as those receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy or medications which may increase tizanidine concentrations. The risk of significant hypotension may be minimized by careful dosage titration and by monitoring for signs and symptoms of orthostatic effects or hypotension. In addition, individuals moving from a supine to fixed upright position may be at increased risk for hypotension and orthostatic effects.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      syncope
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    bradycardia, QT prolongation, ventricular tachycardia
    General Information
    Bradycardia occurred in 2% and 10% of adults receiving 8 mg or 16 mg of tizanidine, respectively (0% placebo) during clinical trials. Ventricular tachycardia has been reported during postmarketing experience with tizanidine. Limited case reports have associated tizanidine with QT prolongation; however, confounding factors (e.g., tizanidine overdose, severe hypokalemia, concomitant use of azithromycin) were present and therefore causality has not been established.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      bradycardia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      QT prolongation
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      ventricular tachycardia
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    constipation, vomiting, xerostomia
    General Information
    Xerostomia is frequently associated with tizanidine, occurring in 49% to 88% of drug recipients during multiple and single dose clinical studies, and is dose-related. Constipation (4%) and vomiting (3%) were also reported.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    depression, dizziness, drowsiness, dyskinesia, excitability, hallucinations, paresthesias, tremor
    General Information
    Drowsiness (somnolence, 48% to 92%) and dizziness (16% to 45%) are common dose-related adverse effects associated with tizanidine use. During clinical trials, the prevalence of drowsiness or sedation peaked after the first week of dosage titration and then remained stable during maintenance phases of multiple dose studies. Excitability (nervousness), dyskinesia, and unspecified speech disorders each occurred in 3% of tizanidine recipients in multiple dose studies. Tizanidine use has been associated with hallucinations in clinical studies and during postmarketing use. In 2 controlled clinical studies, formed/visual hallucinations or delusions were reported in 5 of 170 tizanidine recipients (3%); most people experiencing these hallucinations were aware that the events were not real. One individual developed psychosis in association with hallucinations. Consider discontinuing tizanidine if hallucinations develop; one individual continued to experience problems for at least 2 weeks after tizanidine discontinuation. Depression, convulsions, paresthesias, and tremor have also been reported during postmarketing use of tizanidine.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hallucinations
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      depression
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      paresthesias
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      tremor
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      excitability
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyskinesia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatitis, hepatotoxicity
    General Information
    Tizanidine may cause hepatotoxicity and hepatocellular liver injury. Liver function test (LFT) abnormality (elevated hepatic enzymes) occurred in 6% of treated individuals during clinical trials and at an incidence greater than with placebo. Monitoring of aminotransferase concentrations is recommended at baseline and 1 month after the maximum dose is achieved, or if hepatic injury is suspected. Hepatitis, LFT abnormalities, and hepatotoxicity have been reported during postmarketing use of tizanidine.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hepatitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hepatotoxicity
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, exfoliative dermatitis, rash, Stevens-Johnson syndrome
    General Information
    Dermatological and hypersensitivity-related adverse events may occur with tizanidine. Stevens-Johnson syndrome, exfoliative dermatitis, and rash have been reported during postmarketing use. Anaphylactic or anaphylactoid reactions and angioedema have been reported during postmarketing use of tizanidine. Instruct individuals to discontinue tizanidine seek immediate medical attention if they experience signs and symptoms of anaphylaxis including respiratory compromise, urticaria, and angioedema of the throat and tongue.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      Stevens-Johnson syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      exfoliative dermatitis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    arthralgia, muscle cramps
    General Information
    Arthralgia and muscle cramps (spasms) have been reported during postmarketing use of tizanidine.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      muscle cramps
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    pharyngitis, rhinitis
    General Information
    Adverse respiratory effects reported during tizanidine use in multiple dose controlled trials include rhinitis (3%) and pharyngitis (3%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      rhinitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pharyngitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    blurred vision
    General Information
    Blurred vision occurred in 3% of tizanidine recipients during clinical studies.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      blurred vision
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    cystitis, increased urinary frequency
    General Information
    Urinary tract infections (cystitis) were observed in 10% of tizanidine recipients in clinical studies, and increased urinary frequency was reported in 3%.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      increased urinary frequency
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      cystitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    withdrawal
    General Information
    Tizanidine can cause withdrawal reactions or a drug-discontinuation syndrome; symptoms including rebound hypertension, tachycardia, and hypertonia may occur. Decrease the tizanidine dosage gradually (by 2 to 4 mg/day) to minimize the potential for withdrawal, particularly in people receiving high doses (e.g., 20 to 28 mg daily) for long periods of time (e.g., 9 weeks or more) or individuals who are taking concomitant opioid agonists.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      withdrawal
      Severity
      Moderate

Description
  Text
  Tizanidine is an oral muscle relaxant used to reduce muscle tone associated with spasticity related to cerebral or spinal cord injury, multiple sclerosis, or other spastic disorders. Tizanidine significantly reduced muscle tone in people with spasticity due to multiple sclerosis or spinal cord injury, and significantly decreased the frequency of muscle spasms in people with spasticity due to spinal cord injury in clinical trials, but did not reduce muscle strength. Tizanidine may produce hypotension that can be minimized by dose titration. Tizanidine was approved by the FDA-approved in 1996.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Tizanidine is a central-acting alpha2-adrenergic agonist which acts at presynaptic receptors. The antispasmodic activity of tizanidine results from agonism at central pre-synaptic alpha2-receptors. The effects of tizanidine are greatest on polysynaptic pathways. The overall effect of these actions is thought to reduce facilitation of spinal motor neurons.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    General Information
Tizanidine is essentially completely absorbed. The absolute bioavailability of tizanidine is approximately 40% (CV = 24%), due to extensive first pass hepatic metabolism.
 
Tablets and capsules (e.g., Zanaflex)
The tablets and capsules are bioequivalent under fasted conditions, but not under fed conditions. Following oral administration of a single dose of either two 4 mg capsules or two 4 mg tablets in the fasted state, Tmax occurs at 1 hour. Food increases the Cmax of the tablets by about 30% and delays the time to peak concentration by approximately 25 minutes, to 1 hour and 25 minutes. When the capsules are given with food, the Cmax is decreased by 20% and the Tmax is increased by 2 to 3 hours. As a result, the Cmax of the capsules is about two-thirds the Cmax for the tablet when given with food. Food also increases the extent of absorption of both the tablets and capsules; the increase is approximately 30% for the tablets and about 10% for the capsules. Sprinkling the contents of the capsule on applesauce results in a 15% to 20% increase in the Cmax and AUC of tizanidine and a 15 minute decrease in Tmax. Tizanidine has linear pharmacokinetics over the dose range of 1 to 20 mg.
 
Oral solution (e.g.,Ontralfy)
Tizanidine oral solution has comparable bioavailability to tizanidine oral tablets under fasted and fed conditions and to tizanidine oral capsules under fed conditions. In a single dose pharmacokinetic study in healthy adults, the administration of oral solution following a standardized high-fat, high-calorie breakfast had minimal effect on the Cmax; however, the AUC was increased by approximately 33% compared to dosing under fasting conditions. The median Tmax and mean elimination half-life were similar under fed and fasting conditions.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    The effects of hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of tizanidine have not been studied. Tizanidine is extensively metabolized by the liver, and hepatic impairment is expected to have significant effects on the pharmacokinetics of the medication.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Tizanidine clearance is reduced in people with renal impairment. Tizanidine clearance is reduced by more than 50% in geriatric individuals with renal impairment (CrCl less than 25 mL/minute) compared to healthy older adult subjects.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    A cross-study comparison of pharmacokinetic data following single-dose tizanidine showed that younger subjects cleared the drug 4 times faster than geriatric subjects.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    Gender had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of tizanidine.
  Text
  Tizanidine is administered orally. It is approximately 30% bound to plasma proteins. The mean steady state Vd is 2.4 L/kg (CV = 21%) following IV administration in healthy adults. Approximately 95% of an oral dose is metabolized in the liver, primarily by CYP1A2 to inactive metabolites with half-lives ranging from 20 to 40 hours. The half-life of tizanidine is approximately 2.5 hours. Following single and multiple oral dosing, about 60% and 20% of the dose is recovered in the urine and feces, respectively.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP1A2
Tizanidine is a substrate of CYP1A2.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Capsules and Tablets
Take consistently with or without food. Switching between administration of tizanidine with or without food may lead to variability in tizanidine plasma concentrations.
Switching between dosage forms may also lead to variability in tizanidine plasma concentrations.
Monitor for adverse effects or a change in clinical efficacy if switching between dosage forms or between fed and fasting conditions.
      Name
      Oral Liquid Formulations
      Description
      Oral solution (e.g., Ontralfy)
Take consistently with or without food. Switching between administration of tizanidine with or without food may lead to variability in tizanidine plasma concentrations.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    36 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    36 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Use lower individual doses during dosage titration in those with hepatic impairment. If higher doses are required, increase individual doses rather than dosing frequency.
  Renal Impairment
  CrCl less than 25 mL/minute: Use lower individual doses during dosage titration. If higher doses are required, increase individual doses rather than dosing frequency.
 
Intermittent hemodialysis
It is not known whether tizanidine is removed by hemodialysis; it appears that no supplemental dosage is needed following hemodialysis.
