=== Midostaurin (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 4941)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Midostaurin is an oral tyrosine kinase inhibitor that inhibits mutant FLT3 (ITD and TKD) and D816V mutant KIT.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 100 mg PO twice daily.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): colitis, hemorrhoids, bronchospasm, cough, dyspnea, interstitial lung disease, pleural effusion, pneumonitis, pulmonary edema, anemia, leukopenia, lymphopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, epistaxis, gi bleeding, hematoma, petechiae, prolonged bleeding time, dizziness, headache, tremor, arthralgia, back pain, bone pain, musculoskeletal pain, cystitis, infection, pharyngitis, sinusitis

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Avoid use of midostaurin in people with baseline QT prolongation or who have conditions that may increase the risk of QT prolongation or torsade de pointes, including bradycardia... Emetic risk: Moderate/High

Brand Names
  - Rydapt

Dosage Forms
  - Rydapt 25mg Capsule

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Related Indications
      Heading
      for the treatment of newly diagnosed, FLT3 mutation-positive AML in combination with standard cytarabine and daunorubicin induction and consolidation therapy
      Routes
        Heading
        Oral dosage
        Route Age Groups
          Heading
          Adults
          Dosage Description
          50 mg orally twice daily on days 8 to 21 of each cycle of induction therapy with cytarabine and daunorubicin; additionally, give midostaurin 50 mg orally twice daily on days 8 to 21 of each cycle of consolidation with high-dose cytarabine therapy. Administer prophylactic antiemetic therapy prior to midostaurin. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided; review drug interactions. Treatment with midostaurin plus standard chemotherapy resulted in significantly improved overall survival compared with placebo plus standard chemotherapy (74.7 months vs. 25.6 months; hazard ratio, 0.78; 95% CI, 0.63 to 0.96; p = 0.009) in adult patients (median age, 47.9 years; range, 18 to 60.9 years) with newly diagnosed FLT3-mutated acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) in a randomized, double-blind, phase III trial (the RATIFY trial; n = 717). Patients received midostaurin 50 mg PO twice daily (n = 360) or placebo (n = 357) on days 8 to 21 in combination with daunorubicin (60 mg/m2 IV daily on days 1, 2, and 3) and cytarabine (200 mg/m2 as a continuous IV infusion daily on days 1 to 7) for up to 2 cycles of induction therapy followed by high-dose cytarabine (3 grams/m2 IV over 3 hours every 12 hours on days 1, 3, and 5) for up to four 28-day cycles of consolidation therapy. After consolidation therapy, patients who remained in remission received either midostaurin (50 mg PO twice daily for 14 days) or placebo, according to the initial randomization assignment, for up to 12 additional 28-day cycles. Patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia or therapy-related AML were excluded from this study.
    Routes
    Heading
    For the treatment of acute myelogenous leukemia (AML)
    Related Indications
      Heading
      for the treatment of aggressive systemic mastocytosis, systemic mastocytosis with associated hematological neoplasm, or mast cell leukemia
      Routes
        Heading
        Oral dosage
        Route Age Groups
          Heading
          Adults
          Dosage Description
          100 mg orally twice daily until disease progression. Administer prophylactic antiemetic therapy prior to midostaurin. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided; review drug interactions. Temporary interruption of therapy and a dosage reduction may be necessary in patients who develop severe toxicity. The overall response rate in the first 6 cycles was 60% in patients with aggressive systemic mastocytosis (n = 16), systemic mastocytosis with an associated hematologic neoplasm (n = 57), or mast-cell leukemia (n = 16) who received six 4-weeks cycles of midostaurin in a nonrandomized phase II trial; 45% of patients had a major response defined as complete resolution of 1 or more C-finding. The median duration of response was 24.1 months. At a median follow-up time of 26 months (range, 12 to 54 months), the median progression-free survival and overall survival times were 14.1 months and 28.7 months, respectively. In this study, the primary efficacy population included patients with at least 1 measurable C-finding (e.g., anemia or thrombocytopenia) that was considered to be related to mastocytosis; 58% of patients had not received prior treatment for advanced systemic mastocytosis.
    Routes
    Heading
    For the treatment of systemic mastocytosis

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    bradycardia, cardiomyopathy, congenital long QT syndrome, coronary artery disease, females, geriatric, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, QT prolongation
    General Information
    Avoid use of midostaurin in people with baseline QT prolongation or who have conditions that may increase the risk of QT prolongation or torsade de pointes, including bradycardia, congenital long QT syndrome, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, geriatric adults, females, structural abnormalities that interfere with electrical conduction (e.g., cardiomyopathy, coronary artery disease, ischemic heart disease), or in those who have other additional risk factors for QT prolongation or torsade de pointes. The use of other medications that have been associated with QT prolongation or torsade de pointes may further increase risk. Consider interval assessments with electrocardiogram if midostaurin is taken concurrently with medications that can prolong the QT interval.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Midostaurin may cause fetal harm when administered during pregnancy, based on its mechanism of action and animal studies. Advise females of reproductive potential to avoid becoming pregnant while taking midostaurin. Discuss the potential hazard to the fetus if midostaurin is used during pregnancy or if a patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug. Women exposed to midostaurin during pregnancy should enroll in the pregnancy registry that monitors women and their children by contacting Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation at 1-888-669-6682 or https://report.novartis.com/. Embryo-fetal toxicities including reduced fetal birth weight in rabbits and late embryo-fetal death, dilated lateral brain ventricles, extra ribs, and reduced fetal birth weight with effects on fetal growth (e.g., severe renal pelvic cavitation and widened anterior fontanelle) in rats were observed when pregnant animals received midostaurin at doses that resulted in drug exposures that were lower than those observed with the recommended human dose.
    Headline
    contraception requirements, infertility, male-mediated teratogenicity, pregnancy testing, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel patients about the reproductive risk and contraception requirements during midostaurin treatment. Pregnancy testing within 7 days prior to starting midostaurin therapy is recommended for females of reproductive potential. These patients should avoid pregnancy and use effective contraception during therapy and for 4 months after the last midostaurin dose. Due to male-mediated teratogenicity, men with female partners of reproductive potential should avoid fathering a child and use effective contraception during and for 4 months after midostaurin therapy. Women who received midostaurin during pregnancy or who have been exposed through a male partner taking midostaurin should enroll in the pregnancy registry that monitors women and their children by contacting Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation at 1-888-669-6682 or https://report.novartis.com/. Based on information from animal studies, infertility may occur in females or males of reproductive potential. It is not known if infertility is reversible.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    It is not known if midostaurin or its metabolites are secreted in human milk or if it has effects on the breast-fed infant or on milk production. Because there is a potential for adverse reactions in nursing infants from midostaurin, women should discontinue breast-feeding during midostaurin therapy and for 4 months after the last dose.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Midostaurin may cause fetal harm when administered during pregnancy, based on its mechanism of action and animal studies. Advise females of reproductive potential to avoid becoming pregnant while taking midostaurin. Discuss the potential hazard to the fetus if midostaurin is used during pregnancy or if a patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug. Women exposed to midostaurin during pregnancy should enroll in the pregnancy registry that monitors women and their children by contacting Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation at 1-888-669-6682 or https://report.novartis.com/. Embryo-fetal toxicities including reduced fetal birth weight in rabbits and late embryo-fetal death, dilated lateral brain ventricles, extra ribs, and reduced fetal birth weight with effects on fetal growth (e.g., severe renal pelvic cavitation and widened anterior fontanelle) in rats were observed when pregnant animals received midostaurin at doses that resulted in drug exposures that were lower than those observed with the recommended human dose.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    It is not known if midostaurin or its metabolites are secreted in human milk or if it has effects on the breast-fed infant or on milk production. Because there is a potential for adverse reactions in nursing infants from midostaurin, women should discontinue breast-feeding during midostaurin therapy and for 4 months after the last dose.

Interactions
Abacavir; Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with midostaurin. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a BCRP substrate and midostaurin is a BCRP inhibitor.
Adagrasib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and adagrasib due to the potential for increased midostaurin exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of midostaurin toxicity (e.g., gastrointestinal toxicity, hematologic toxicity, bleeding, and infection), particularly during the first week of midostaurin therapy for systemic mastocytosis/mast cell leukemia and the first week of each cycle of midostaurin therapy for acute myeloid leukemia. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Midostaurin is a CYP3A substrate, adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT prolongation. The AUC values of midostaurin and its metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421 increased by 10.4-fold, 3.5-fold, and 1.2-fold, respectively, when midostaurin was administered with another strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Alfuzosin: (Major) The concomitant use of midostaurin and alfuzosin may lead to additive QT interval prolongation. If these drugs are used together, consider obtaining electrocardiograms to monitor the QT interval. In clinical trials, QT prolongation was reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin. Based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer, alfuzosin may also prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Alpelisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of alpelisib with midostaurin due to increased exposure to alpelisib and the risk of alpelisib-related toxicity. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor for alpelisib-related adverse reactions. Alpelisib is a BCRP substrate and midostaurin is a BCRP inhibitor.
Amiodarone: (Major) Concomitant use of amiodarone and midostaurin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Due to the extremely long half-life of amiodarone, a drug interaction is possible for days to weeks after drug discontinuation.
Amisulpride: (Major) Monitor ECGs for QT prolongation when amisulpride is administered with midostaurin. Amisulpride causes dose- and concentration- dependent QT prolongation. QT prolongation was reported in patients who received midostaurin in clinical trials.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with midostaurin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a BCRP and OATP1B1/3 substrate; midostaurin is a dual BCRP/OATP1B1 inhibitor.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and clarithromycin due to the risk of increased midostaurin exposure which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions; concomitant use also increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use cannot be avoided, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of midostaurin toxicity, particularly during the first week of midostaurin therapy for those with systemic mastocytosis/mast cell leukemia and during the first week of each cycle for those with acute myeloid leukemia. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Midostaurin is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of one strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with a single dose of midostaurin increased the exposure of midostaurin and its active metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421 by 10.4-fold, 3.5-fold, and 1.2-fold, respectively. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with twice daily doses of midostaurin increased Day 28 trough concentrations of midostaurin, CGP62221, and CGP52421 by 2.1-fold, 1.2-fold, and 1.3-fold respectively compared with day 21 trough levels with midostaurin alone.
Anagrelide: (Major) The concomitant use of midostaurin and anagrelide may lead to additive QT interval prolongation. If these drugs are used together, consider obtaining electrocardiograms (ECG) to monitor the QT interval. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. In clinical trials, QT prolongation was reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin. Torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and apalutamide as midostaurin exposure may be decreased, which may reduce its efficacy. Midostaurin is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased the exposure of midostaurin and its metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421 by 96%, 92%, and 59%, respectively.
Apomorphine: (Major) The concomitant use of midostaurin and apomorphine may lead to additive QT interval prolongation. If these drugs are used together, consider obtaining electrocardiograms to monitor the QT interval. In clinical trials, QT prolongation was reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
ARIPiprazole: (Major) Concomitant use of midostaurin and aripiprazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Arsenic Trioxide: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and arsenic trioxide; both drugs have been reported to increase the QT interval. Discontinue or select an alternative drug that does not prolong the QT interval prior to starting arsenic trioxide therapy. If use of these drugs together is unavoidable, frequently monitor electrocardiograms. In clinical trials, QT prolongation was reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin. Torsade de pointes, QT interval prolongation, and complete atrioventricular block have been reported with arsenic trioxide use.
Artemether; Lumefantrine: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and artemether if possible; both drugs have been reported to increase the QT interval. If use of midostaurin and artemether; lumefantrine is required, consider electrocardiogram monitoring. In clinical trials, QT prolongation was reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin and in patients who received artemether; lumefantrine. (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and artemether; lumefantrine if possible; both drugs have been reported to increase the QT interval. If use of midostaurin and artemether; lumefantrine is required, consider electrocardiogram monitoring. In clinical trials, QT prolongation was reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin and in patients who received artemether; lumefantrine.
Asenapine: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and asenapine; both drugs have been reported to increase the QT interval. If coadministration cannot be avoided, consider obtaining electrocardiograms to monitor the QT interval. In clinical trials, QT prolongation was reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin.
Atazanavir: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and atazanavir due to the risk of increased midostaurin exposure which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of midostaurin toxicity, particularly during the first week of midostaurin therapy for those with systemic mastocytosis/mast cell leukemia and during the first week of each cycle for those with acute myeloid leukemia. Midostaurin is a CYP3A4 substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of one strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with a single dose of midostaurin increased the exposure of midostaurin and its active metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421 by 10.4-fold, 3.5-fold, and 1.2-fold, respectively. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with twice daily doses of midostaurin increased Day 28 trough concentrations of midostaurin, CGP62221, and CGP52421 by 2.1-fold, 1.2-fold, and 1.3-fold respectively compared with day 21 trough levels with midostaurin alone.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and atazanavir due to the risk of increased midostaurin exposure which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of midostaurin toxicity, particularly during the first week of midostaurin therapy for those with systemic mastocytosis/mast cell leukemia and during the first week of each cycle for those with acute myeloid leukemia. Midostaurin is a CYP3A4 substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of one strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with a single dose of midostaurin increased the exposure of midostaurin and its active metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421 by 10.4-fold, 3.5-fold, and 1.2-fold, respectively. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with twice daily doses of midostaurin increased Day 28 trough concentrations of midostaurin, CGP62221, and CGP52421 by 2.1-fold, 1.2-fold, and 1.3-fold respectively compared with day 21 trough levels with midostaurin alone. (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and cobicistat due to the risk of increased midostaurin exposure which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of midostaurin toxicity, particularly during the first week of midostaurin therapy for those with systemic mastocytosis/mast cell leukemia and during the first week of each cycle for those with acute myeloid leukemia. Midostaurin is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of one strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with a single dose of midostaurin increased the exposure of midostaurin and its active metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421 by 10.4-fold, 3.5-fold, and 1.2-fold, respectively. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with twice daily doses of midostaurin increased Day 28 trough concentrations of midostaurin, CGP62221, and CGP52421 by 2.1-fold, 1.2-fold, and 1.3-fold respectively compared with day 21 trough levels with midostaurin alone.
Atogepant: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 or 30 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine or 30 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine if coadministered with midostaurin. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a substrate of OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 and midostaurin is an OATP inhibitor. Coadministration with an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor resulted in a 2.85-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure and a 2.23-fold increase in atogepant peak concentration.
Atomoxetine: (Major) Concomitant use of midostaurin and atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with midostaurin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a BCRP and OATP1B1/3 substrate; midostaurin is a dual BCRP/OATP1B1 inhibitor.
Azithromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of midostaurin and azithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Bedaquiline: (Major) The concomitant use of midostaurin and bedaquiline may lead to additive QT interval prolongation. If these drugs are used together, consider obtaining electrocardiograms (ECG) to monitor the QT interval during therapy. Prior to initiating bedaquiline, obtain serum electrolyte concentrations and a baseline ECG. An ECG should also be performed at least 2, 12, and 24 weeks after starting bedaquiline therapy. In clinical trials, QT prolongation was reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin.
Bictegravir; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with midostaurin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a BCRP substrate and midostaurin is a BCRP inhibitor.
Bismuth Subcitrate Potassium; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and midostaurin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and midostaurin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Brincidofovir: (Moderate) Postpone the administration of midostaurin for at least three hours after brincidofovir administration and increase monitoring for brincidofovir-related adverse reactions (i.e., elevated hepatic enzymes and bilirubin, diarrhea, other gastrointestinal adverse events) if concomitant use of brincidofovir and midostaurin is necessary. Brincidofovir is an OATP1B1 substrate and midostaurin is an OATP1B1 inhibitor. In a drug interaction study, the mean AUC and Cmax of brincidofovir increased by 374% and 269%, respectively, when administered with another OATP1B1 inhibitor.
Buprenorphine: (Major) Concomitant use of midostaurin and buprenorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Major) Concomitant use of midostaurin and buprenorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
buPROPion: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of efficacy of bupropion during coadministration of midostaurin as concurrent use may decrease bupropion exposure. A bupropion dose adjustment may be necessary; do not exceed maximum dose. Bupropion is a sensitive substrate of CYP2B6; midostaurin is a moderate CYP2B6 inducer.
buPROPion; Naltrexone: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of efficacy of bupropion during coadministration of midostaurin as concurrent use may decrease bupropion exposure. A bupropion dose adjustment may be necessary; do not exceed maximum dose. Bupropion is a sensitive substrate of CYP2B6; midostaurin is a moderate CYP2B6 inducer.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Major) The concomitant use of midostaurin and rilpivirine may lead to additive QT interval prolongation. If these drugs are used together, consider electrocardiogram monitoring. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and carbamazepine as midostaurin exposure may be decreased, which may reduce its efficacy. Midostaurin is a CYP3A4 substrate and carbamazepine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased the exposure of midostaurin and its metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421 by 96%, 92%, and 59%, respectively.
Ceritinib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and ceritinib due to the risk of increased midostaurin exposure which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions; concomitant use also increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use cannot be avoided, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of midostaurin toxicity, particularly during the first week of midostaurin therapy for those with systemic mastocytosis/mast cell leukemia and during the first week of each cycle for those with acute myeloid leukemia. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Midostaurin is a CYP3A4 substrate and ceritinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of one strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with a single dose of midostaurin increased the exposure of midostaurin and its active metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421 by 10.4-fold, 3.5-fold, and 1.2-fold, respectively. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with twice daily doses of midostaurin increased Day 28 trough concentrations of midostaurin, CGP62221, and CGP52421 by 2.1-fold, 1.2-fold, and 1.3-fold respectively compared with day 21 trough levels with midostaurin alone.
Chloramphenicol: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and chloramphenicol due to the risk of increased midostaurin exposure which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of midostaurin toxicity, particularly during the first week of midostaurin therapy for those with systemic mastocytosis/mast cell leukemia and during the first week of each cycle for those with acute myeloid leukemia. Midostaurin is a CYP3A4 substrate and chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of one strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with a single dose of midostaurin increased the exposure of midostaurin and its active metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421 by 10.4-fold, 3.5-fold, and 1.2-fold, respectively. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with twice daily doses of midostaurin increased Day 28 trough concentrations of midostaurin, CGP62221, and CGP52421 by 2.1-fold, 1.2-fold, and 1.3-fold respectively compared with day 21 trough levels with midostaurin alone.
Chloroquine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of chloroquine with midostaurin due to the increased risk of QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain an ECG at baseline to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. Chloroquine is associated with an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP); the risk of QT prolongation is increased with higher chloroquine doses. QT prolongation was reported in patients who received midostaurin in clinical trials.
chlorproMAZINE: (Major) The concomitant use of midostaurin and chlorpromazine may lead to additive QT interval prolongation. If these drugs are used together, consider obtaining electrocardiograms to monitor the QT interval. In clinical trials, QT prolongation was reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin. Chlorpromazine, a phenothiazine, is associated with an established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). The risk of QT prolongation and TdP is generally higher at elevated concentrations of phenothiazines. However, case reports have included patients receiving therapeutic doses of chlorpromazine.
Cholera Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the live cholera vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to cholera bacteria after receiving the vaccine.
Ciprofloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of ciprofloxacin and midostaurin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Cisapride: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), use of midostaurin with cisapride is contraindicated. QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including TdP and death, have been reported with cisapride. In clinical trials, QT prolongation was reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin.
Citalopram: (Major) Concomitant use of citalopram and midostaurin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and clarithromycin due to the risk of increased midostaurin exposure which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions; concomitant use also increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use cannot be avoided, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of midostaurin toxicity, particularly during the first week of midostaurin therapy for those with systemic mastocytosis/mast cell leukemia and during the first week of each cycle for those with acute myeloid leukemia. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Midostaurin is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of one strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with a single dose of midostaurin increased the exposure of midostaurin and its active metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421 by 10.4-fold, 3.5-fold, and 1.2-fold, respectively. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with twice daily doses of midostaurin increased Day 28 trough concentrations of midostaurin, CGP62221, and CGP52421 by 2.1-fold, 1.2-fold, and 1.3-fold respectively compared with day 21 trough levels with midostaurin alone.
Clofazimine: (Major) Concomitant use of clofazimine and midostaurin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
cloZAPine: (Major) The concomitant use of midostaurin and clozapine may lead to additive QT interval prolongation. If these drugs are used together, obtain electrocardiograms to monitor the QT interval. Electrolyte imbalances should be corrected prior to initiating treatment with clozapine. Baseline assessments of serum potassium and magnesium levels should be performed, as well as periodic evaluation during treatment, in patients at risk for electrolyte imbalances. The drug should be discontinued if the QT interval exceeds 500 milliseconds. In clinical trials, QT prolongation was reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin. Treatment with clozapine has been associated with QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest, and sudden death.
Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and cobicistat due to the risk of increased midostaurin exposure which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of midostaurin toxicity, particularly during the first week of midostaurin therapy for those with systemic mastocytosis/mast cell leukemia and during the first week of each cycle for those with acute myeloid leukemia. Midostaurin is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of one strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with a single dose of midostaurin increased the exposure of midostaurin and its active metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421 by 10.4-fold, 3.5-fold, and 1.2-fold, respectively. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with twice daily doses of midostaurin increased Day 28 trough concentrations of midostaurin, CGP62221, and CGP52421 by 2.1-fold, 1.2-fold, and 1.3-fold respectively compared with day 21 trough levels with midostaurin alone.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of promethazine and midostaurin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of promethazine and midostaurin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Crizotinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of crizotinib with midostaurin due to the risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary for crizotinib if QT prolongation occurs. Crizotinib has been associated with concentration-dependent QT prolongation. Prolongation of the QT interval was also reported in patients who received midostaurin in clinical trials.
Darunavir: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and darunavir due to the risk of increased midostaurin exposure which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of midostaurin toxicity, particularly during the first week of midostaurin therapy for those with systemic mastocytosis/mast cell leukemia and during the first week of each cycle for those with acute myeloid leukemia. Midostaurin is a CYP3A4 substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of one strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with a single dose of midostaurin increased the exposure of midostaurin and its active metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421 by 10.4-fold, 3.5-fold, and 1.2-fold, respectively. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with twice daily doses of midostaurin increased Day 28 trough concentrations of midostaurin, CGP62221, and CGP52421 by 2.1-fold, 1.2-fold, and 1.3-fold respectively compared with day 21 trough levels with midostaurin alone.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and cobicistat due to the risk of increased midostaurin exposure which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of midostaurin toxicity, particularly during the first week of midostaurin therapy for those with systemic mastocytosis/mast cell leukemia and during the first week of each cycle for those with acute myeloid leukemia. Midostaurin is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of one strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with a single dose of midostaurin increased the exposure of midostaurin and its active metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421 by 10.4-fold, 3.5-fold, and 1.2-fold, respectively. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with twice daily doses of midostaurin increased Day 28 trough concentrations of midostaurin, CGP62221, and CGP52421 by 2.1-fold, 1.2-fold, and 1.3-fold respectively compared with day 21 trough levels with midostaurin alone. (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and darunavir due to the risk of increased midostaurin exposure which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of midostaurin toxicity, particularly during the first week of midostaurin therapy for those with systemic mastocytosis/mast cell leukemia and during the first week of each cycle for those with acute myeloid leukemia. Midostaurin is a CYP3A4 substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of one strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with a single dose of midostaurin increased the exposure of midostaurin and its active metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421 by 10.4-fold, 3.5-fold, and 1.2-fold, respectively. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with twice daily doses of midostaurin increased Day 28 trough concentrations of midostaurin, CGP62221, and CGP52421 by 2.1-fold, 1.2-fold, and 1.3-fold respectively compared with day 21 trough levels with midostaurin alone.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and cobicistat due to the risk of increased midostaurin exposure which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of midostaurin toxicity, particularly during the first week of midostaurin therapy for those with systemic mastocytosis/mast cell leukemia and during the first week of each cycle for those with acute myeloid leukemia. Midostaurin is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of one strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with a single dose of midostaurin increased the exposure of midostaurin and its active metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421 by 10.4-fold, 3.5-fold, and 1.2-fold, respectively. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with twice daily doses of midostaurin increased Day 28 trough concentrations of midostaurin, CGP62221, and CGP52421 by 2.1-fold, 1.2-fold, and 1.3-fold respectively compared with day 21 trough levels with midostaurin alone. (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and darunavir due to the risk of increased midostaurin exposure which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of midostaurin toxicity, particularly during the first week of midostaurin therapy for those with systemic mastocytosis/mast cell leukemia and during the first week of each cycle for those with acute myeloid leukemia. Midostaurin is a CYP3A4 substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of one strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with a single dose of midostaurin increased the exposure of midostaurin and its active metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421 by 10.4-fold, 3.5-fold, and 1.2-fold, respectively. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with twice daily doses of midostaurin increased Day 28 trough concentrations of midostaurin, CGP62221, and CGP52421 by 2.1-fold, 1.2-fold, and 1.3-fold respectively compared with day 21 trough levels with midostaurin alone. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with midostaurin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a BCRP substrate and midostaurin is a BCRP inhibitor.
Dasatinib: (Major) The concomitant use of midostaurin and dasatinib may lead to additive QT interval prolongation. If these drugs are used together, consider obtaining electrocardiograms to monitor the QT interval. Correct electrolyte imbalances such as hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia prior to starting dasatinib therapy. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin and in patients who received dasatinib.
Degarelix: (Major) Consider interval assessments of the QT interval by EKG if midostaurin is taken concurrently with degarelix. QT prolongation was reported in patients who received midostaurin in clinical trials. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Dengue Tetravalent Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of the live dengue virus vaccine with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Desflurane: (Major) The concomitant use of midostaurin and halogenated anesthetics may lead to additive QT interval prolongation. If these drugs are used together, consider electrocardiogram monitoring. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin.
Deutetrabenazine: (Major) Consider interval assessments of QT by ECG if midostaurin is taken concurrently with deutetrabenazine. QT prolongation was reported in patients who received midostaurin in clinical trials. Deutetrabenazine may prolong the QT interval, but the degree of QT prolongation is not clinically significant when deutetrabenazine is administered within the recommended dosage range.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Major) Concomitant use of dexmedetomidine and midostaurin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dextromethorphan; buPROPion: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of efficacy of bupropion during coadministration of midostaurin as concurrent use may decrease bupropion exposure. A bupropion dose adjustment may be necessary; do not exceed maximum dose. Bupropion is a sensitive substrate of CYP2B6; midostaurin is a moderate CYP2B6 inducer.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Major) The concomitant use of midostaurin and quinidine may lead to additive QT interval prolongation. If these drugs are used together, consider electrocardiogram monitoring. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin. Quinidine is a Class IA antiarrhythmic agent; it is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Quinidine should be discontinued if significant QT prolongation or TdP occur during therapy.
dilTIAZem: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and diltiazem due to the risk of increased midostaurin exposure which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of midostaurin toxicity, particularly during the first week of midostaurin therapy for those with systemic mastocytosis/mast cell leukemia and during the first week of each cycle for those with acute myeloid leukemia. Midostaurin is a CYP3A4 substrate and diltiazem is a CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of one strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with a single dose of midostaurin increased the exposure of midostaurin and its active metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421 by 10.4-fold, 3.5-fold, and 1.2-fold, respectively. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with twice daily doses of midostaurin increased Day 28 trough concentrations of midostaurin, CGP62221, and CGP52421 by 2.1-fold, 1.2-fold, and 1.3-fold respectively compared with day 21 trough levels with midostaurin alone.
Disopyramide: (Major) The concomitant use of midostaurin and disopyramide may lead to additive QT interval prolongation. If these drugs are used together, consider obtaining electrocardiograms to monitor the QT interval. Closely monitor patients who experience QT prolongation greater than 25% compared with baseline; consider discontinuing disopyramide if the ectopy persists. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin. Disopyramide is considered to have a well-established risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP) (or polymorphic ventricular tachycardia) and is capable of inducing QT prolongation or TdP even at low therapeutic doses.
Dofetilide: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and midostaurin is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, consider interval assessments of QT by EKG. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). QT prolongation was reported in patients who received midostaurin in clinical trials.
Dolutegravir: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with midostaurin. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a BCRP substrate and midostaurin is a BCRP inhibitor.
Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with midostaurin. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a BCRP substrate and midostaurin is a BCRP inhibitor.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Major) The concomitant use of midostaurin and rilpivirine may lead to additive QT interval prolongation. If these drugs are used together, consider electrocardiogram monitoring. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation. (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with midostaurin. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a BCRP substrate and midostaurin is a BCRP inhibitor.
Donepezil: (Major) The concomitant use of midostaurin and donepezil may lead to additive QT interval prolongation. If these drugs are used together, consider obtaining electrocardiograms (ECG) to monitor the QT interval. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin. There have been case reports of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes with donepezil therapy.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Major) The concomitant use of midostaurin and donepezil may lead to additive QT interval prolongation. If these drugs are used together, consider obtaining electrocardiograms (ECG) to monitor the QT interval. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin. There have been case reports of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes with donepezil therapy.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with midostaurin may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP substrate and midostaurin is a BCRP inhibitor.
Dordaviprone: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and midostaurin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dronedarone: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), use of midostaurin with dronedarone is contraindicated. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds (msec) at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 msec at doses of 1,600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
droPERidol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of midostaurin with droperidol; both drugs have been reported to increase the QT interval. If coadministration cannot be avoided, use extreme caution and monitor electrocardiograms; initiate droperidol at a low dose and increase the dose as needed to achieve the desired effect. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin. Droperidol administration is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes. Some cases have occurred in patients with no known risk factors for QT prolongation and some cases have been fatal.
Efavirenz: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and efavirenz as midostaurin exposure may be decreased, which may reduce its efficacy; concomitant use also increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Midostaurin is a CYP3A4 substrate and efavirenz is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased the exposure of midostaurin and its metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421 by 96%, 92%, and 59%, respectively.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and efavirenz as midostaurin exposure may be decreased, which may reduce its efficacy; concomitant use also increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Midostaurin is a CYP3A4 substrate and efavirenz is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased the exposure of midostaurin and its metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421 by 96%, 92%, and 59%, respectively. (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with midostaurin may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP substrate and midostaurin is a BCRP inhibitor.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and efavirenz as midostaurin exposure may be decreased, which may reduce its efficacy; concomitant use also increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Midostaurin is a CYP3A4 substrate and efavirenz is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased the exposure of midostaurin and its metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421 by 96%, 92%, and 59%, respectively. (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with midostaurin may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP substrate and midostaurin is a BCRP inhibitor.
Elagolix: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of elagolix with midostaurin is contraindicated as concurrent use may increase elagolix exposure. Elagolix is a substrate of OATP1B1 and midostaurin is an OATP1B1 inhibitor.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of elagolix with midostaurin is contraindicated as concurrent use may increase elagolix exposure. Elagolix is a substrate of OATP1B1 and midostaurin is an OATP1B1 inhibitor.
Elbasvir; Grazoprevir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of grazoprevir and midostaurin is contraindicated due to the potential for increased grazoprevir exposure. Grazoprevir is a substrate of OATP1B1/3; midostaurin is an inhibitor of OATP1B1.
Eliglustat: (Major) The concomitant use of midostaurin and eliglustat may lead to additive QT interval prolongation. If these drugs are used together, consider obtaining electrocardiograms to monitor the QT interval. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin. Eliglustat is predicted to cause PR, QRS, and/or QT prolongation at significantly elevated plasma concentrations.
Eluxadoline: (Major) Reduce the dose of eluxadoline to 75 mg twice daily and monitor for eluxadoline-related adverse effects (i.e., decreased mental and physical acuity) if coadministered with midostaurin. Coadministration may increase exposure of eluxadoline. Eluxadoline is an OATP1B1 substrate and midostaurin is a an OATP1B1 inhibitor. Coadministration with another OATP1B1 inhibitor increased the exposure of eluxadoline by 4.4-fold.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and cobicistat due to the risk of increased midostaurin exposure which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of midostaurin toxicity, particularly during the first week of midostaurin therapy for those with systemic mastocytosis/mast cell leukemia and during the first week of each cycle for those with acute myeloid leukemia. Midostaurin is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of one strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with a single dose of midostaurin increased the exposure of midostaurin and its active metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421 by 10.4-fold, 3.5-fold, and 1.2-fold, respectively. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with twice daily doses of midostaurin increased Day 28 trough concentrations of midostaurin, CGP62221, and CGP52421 by 2.1-fold, 1.2-fold, and 1.3-fold respectively compared with day 21 trough levels with midostaurin alone. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with midostaurin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a BCRP substrate and midostaurin is a BCRP inhibitor.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and cobicistat due to the risk of increased midostaurin exposure which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of midostaurin toxicity, particularly during the first week of midostaurin therapy for those with systemic mastocytosis/mast cell leukemia and during the first week of each cycle for those with acute myeloid leukemia. Midostaurin is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of one strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with a single dose of midostaurin increased the exposure of midostaurin and its active metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421 by 10.4-fold, 3.5-fold, and 1.2-fold, respectively. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with twice daily doses of midostaurin increased Day 28 trough concentrations of midostaurin, CGP62221, and CGP52421 by 2.1-fold, 1.2-fold, and 1.3-fold respectively compared with day 21 trough levels with midostaurin alone. (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with midostaurin may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP substrate and midostaurin is a BCRP inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) The concomitant use of midostaurin and rilpivirine may lead to additive QT interval prolongation. If these drugs are used together, consider electrocardiogram monitoring. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with midostaurin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a BCRP substrate and midostaurin is a BCRP inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) The concomitant use of midostaurin and rilpivirine may lead to additive QT interval prolongation. If these drugs are used together, consider electrocardiogram monitoring. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation. (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with midostaurin may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP substrate and midostaurin is a BCRP inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with midostaurin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a BCRP substrate and midostaurin is a BCRP inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with midostaurin may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP substrate and midostaurin is a BCRP inhibitor.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of encorafenib with midostaurin due to the risk for decreased midostaurin exposure and efficacy and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Midostaurin is a CYP3A substrate, encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The AUC values of midostaurin and its metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421 decreased by 96%, 92%, and 59%, respectively, when midostaurin was administered with another strong CYP3A inducer.
Ensitrelvir: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and ensitrelvir as significantly increased exposure of midostaurin and its active metabolites may occur resulting in increased toxicity. Consider an alternative agent to replace ensitrelvir. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of midostaurin toxicity (e.g., gastrointestinal toxicity, hematologic toxicity, bleeding, and infection), particularly during the first week of midostaurin therapy for systemic mastocytosis/mast cell leukemia and the first week of each cycle of midostaurin therapy for acute myeloid leukemia. Midostaurin is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. The AUC values of midostaurin and its metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421 increased by 10.4-fold, 3.5-fold, and 1.2-fold, respectively, when midostaurin was administered with another strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Entrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of entrectinib with midostaurin due to the risk of QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, consider interval assessments of QT by EKG. Entrectinib has been associated with QT prolongation. QT prolongation was reported in patients who received midostaurin in clinical trials.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and enzalutamide as midostaurin exposure may be decreased, which may reduce its efficacy. Midostaurin is a CYP3A4 substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased the exposure of midostaurin and its metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421 by 96%, 92%, and 59%, respectively.
eriBULin: (Major) The concomitant use of midostaurin and eribulin may lead to additive QT interval prolongation. If these drugs are used together, monitor electrocardiograms and observe patients closely for QT interval prolongation. Additionally, correct hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia prior to starting eribulin; monitor electrolytes periodically during therapy. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin.
Erythromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of erythromycin and midostaurin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Escitalopram: (Major) Concomitant use of midostaurin and escitalopram increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Etrasimod: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and midostaurin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Ezetimibe; Simvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in simvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with midostaurin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase simvastatin exposure. Simvastatin is an OATP1B1 substrate; midostaurin is an OATP1B1 inhibitor.
Fenfluramine: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of fenfluramine and midostaurin due to the risk of decreased fenfluramine plasma concentrations, which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for decreased efficacy and consider increasing fenfluramine dose as needed. Fenfluramine is a CYP2B6 substrate and midostaurin is a CYP2B6 inducer.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and midostaurin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fingolimod: (Major) The concomitant use of midostaurin and fingolimod may lead to additive QT interval prolongation. If these drugs are used together, monitor the QT interval with electrocardiograms. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin. Fingolimod initiation results in decreased heart rate and may prolong the QT interval. Fingolimod has not been studied in patients treated with drugs that prolong the QT interval, but drugs that prolong the QT interval have been associated with cases of torsade de pointes in patients with bradycardia.
Flecainide: (Major) Concomitant use of midostaurin and flecainide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fluconazole: (Contraindicated) The concurrent use of fluconazole with drugs that are associated with QT prolongation and are also CYP3A4 substrates, such as midostaurin, is contraindicated. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin. During post-marketing surveillance, rare cases of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes have been reported with fluconazole use.
FLUoxetine: (Major) Concomitant use of midostaurin and fluoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
fluPHENAZine: (Minor) The concomitant use of midostaurin and fluphenazine may lead to additive QT interval prolongation. If these drugs are used together, consider electrocardiogram monitoring. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin. Additionally, fluphenazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation.
fluvoxaMINE: (Major) There may be an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) during concurrent use of fluvoxamine and midostaurin. QT prolongation was reported in patients who received midostaurin in clinical trials. Cases of QT prolongation and TdP have been reported during postmarketing use of fluvoxamine. Consider obtaining electrocardiograms to monitor the QT interval midostaurin is used with other drugs that prolong the QT interval.
Fosamprenavir: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and fosamprenavir due to the risk of increased midostaurin exposure which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of midostaurin toxicity, particularly during the first week of midostaurin therapy for those with systemic mastocytosis/mast cell leukemia and during the first week of each cycle for those with acute myeloid leukemia. Midostaurin is a CYP3A4 substrate and fosamprenavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of one strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with a single dose of midostaurin increased the exposure of midostaurin and its active metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421 by 10.4-fold, 3.5-fold, and 1.2-fold, respectively. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with twice daily doses of midostaurin increased Day 28 trough concentrations of midostaurin, CGP62221, and CGP52421 by 2.1-fold, 1.2-fold, and 1.3-fold respectively compared with day 21 trough levels with midostaurin alone.
Foscarnet: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and foscarnet; both drugs have been reported to increase the QT interval. Obtain electrocardiograms (ECG) and electrolyte concentrations before and periodically during treatment with foscarnet. In clinical trials, QT prolongation was reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin. QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmia, including torsade de pointes, have been reported in postmarketing surveillance of foscarnet.
Fosfomycin (injectable): (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and midostaurin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosfomycin: (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and midostaurin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and fosphenytoin as midostaurin exposure may be decreased, which may reduce its efficacy. Midostaurin is a CYP3A4 substrate and fosphenytoin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased the exposure of midostaurin and its metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421 by 96%, 92%, and 59%, respectively.
Fostemsavir: (Major) Consider electrocardiogram (ECG) monitoring of the QT interval if midostaurin is taken concurrently with fostemsavir. QT prolongation was reported in patients who received midostaurin in clinical trials. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Gemifloxacin: (Major) The concomitant use of midostaurin and gemifloxacin may lead to additive QT interval prolongation. If these drugs are used together, consider electrocardiogram monitoring. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin. Gemifloxacin may prolong the QT interval in some patients. The maximal change in the QTc interval occurs approximately 5 to 10 hours following oral administration of gemifloxacin. The likelihood of QTc prolongation may increase with increasing dose of the drug; therefore, the recommended dose should not be exceeded especially in patients with renal or hepatic impairment where the Cmax and AUC are slightly higher.
Gemtuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Use gemtuzumab ozogamicin and midostaurin together with caution due to the potential for additive QT interval prolongation and risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). If these agents are used together, obtain an ECG and serum electrolytes prior to the start of gemtuzumab and as needed during treatment. Although QT interval prolongation has not been reported with gemtuzumab, it has been reported with other drugs that contain calicheamicin. QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin in clinical trials.
Gepirone: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and midostaurin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Gepotidacin: (Major) Concomitant use of gepotidacin and midostaurin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Gilteritinib: (Major) Use caution and monitor for additive QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and midostaurin is necessary. Consider obtaining periodic electrocardiograms. Both drugs have been associated with QT prolongation.
Givinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of givinostat and midostaurin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with givinostat is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 5 times the maximum recommended dose.
Glasdegib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with midostaurin due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. QT prolongation was reported in patients who received midostaurin in clinical trials.
Glecaprevir; Pibrentasvir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in glecaprevir-related adverse reactions if coadministration with midostaurin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase glecaprevir exposure. Glecaprevir is an OATP1B1/3 and BCRP substrate; midostaurin is an OATP1B1 and BCRP inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in pibrentasvir-related adverse effects if concomitant use of midostaurin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase pibrentasvir exposure. Pibrentasvir is a substrate of BCRP and midostaurin is a BCRP inhibitor.
glyBURIDE: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in glyburide-related adverse reactions, such as hypoglycemia, if coadministration with midostaurin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase glyburide exposure. Glyburide is a substrate of OATP1B1/3; midostaurin is an OATP1B1 inhibitor.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in glyburide-related adverse reactions, such as hypoglycemia, if coadministration with midostaurin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase glyburide exposure. Glyburide is a substrate of OATP1B1/3; midostaurin is an OATP1B1 inhibitor.
Goserelin: (Major) Consider periodic monitoring of EGCs for QT prolongation if coadministration of goserelin and midostaurin is necessary. Prolongation of the QT interval was reported in patients who received midostaurin in clinical trials. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., goserelin) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Granisetron: (Major) The concomitant use of midostaurin and granisetron may lead to additive QT interval prolongation. If these drugs are used together, consider electrocardiogram monitoring. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin. QT prolongation has been reported with IV and oral granisetron in post-marketing surveillance. In a randomized, single-blind, parallel study of healthy patients treated with the granisetron patch (Sancuso, n = 60) or IV granisetron (10 mcg/kg, n = 60), the baseline corrected QTcF for Sancuso was below 10 milliseconds suggesting no effects on QT prolongation.
Grapefruit juice: (Major) Advise patients to avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice during midostaurin treatment due to the risk for increased midostaurin exposure and adverse reactions. Midostaurin is a CYP3A substrate and grapefruit juice is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Halogenated Anesthetics: (Major) The concomitant use of midostaurin and halogenated anesthetics may lead to additive QT interval prolongation. If these drugs are used together, consider electrocardiogram monitoring. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin.
Haloperidol: (Major) The concomitant use of midostaurin and haloperidol may lead to additive QT interval prolongation. If these drugs are used together, consider electrocardiogram monitoring. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin. QT prolongation and torsade de pointes have been observed during haloperidol treatment. Excessive doses (particularly in the overdose setting) or IV administration of haloperidol may be associated with a higher risk of QT prolongation.
Histrelin: (Major) Consider periodic monitoring of EGCs for QT prolongation if coadministration of histrelin and midostaurin is necessary. Prolongation of the QT interval was reported in patients who received midostaurin in clinical trials. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., histrelin) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Hydroxychloroquine: (Major) Concomitant use of midostaurin and hydroxychloroquine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
hydrOXYzine: (Major) Concomitant use of hydroxyzine and midostaurin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ibutilide: (Major) The concomitant use of midostaurin and ibutilide may lead to additive QT interval prolongation. If these drugs are used together, consider electrocardiogram monitoring. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin and in patients who received ibutilide.
Idelalisib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and idelalisib due to the risk of increased midostaurin exposure which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of midostaurin toxicity, particularly during the first week of midostaurin therapy for those with systemic mastocytosis/mast cell leukemia and during the first week of each cycle for those with acute myeloid leukemia. Midostaurin is a CYP3A4 substrate and idelalisib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of one strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with a single dose of midostaurin increased the exposure of midostaurin and its active metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421 by 10.4-fold, 3.5-fold, and 1.2-fold, respectively. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with twice daily doses of midostaurin increased Day 28 trough concentrations of midostaurin, CGP62221, and CGP52421 by 2.1-fold, 1.2-fold, and 1.3-fold respectively compared with day 21 trough levels with midostaurin alone.
Iloperidone: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and iloperidone; both drugs have been reported to increase the QT interval. If coadministration cannot be avoided, consider electrocardiogram monitoring. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin.
Inotuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of inotuzumab ozogamicin with midostaurin due to the potential for additive QT prolongation and risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). If coadministration is unavoidable, obtain an ECG and serum electrolytes prior to the start of treatment, after treatment initiation, and periodically during treatment. Both inotuzumab and midostaurin have been associated with QT prolongation.
Isoflurane: (Major) The concomitant use of midostaurin and halogenated anesthetics may lead to additive QT interval prolongation. If these drugs are used together, consider electrocardiogram monitoring. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin.
Itraconazole: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and itraconazole due to the risk of increased midostaurin exposure which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions; concomitant use also increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use cannot be avoided, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of midostaurin toxicity, particularly during the first week of midostaurin therapy for those with systemic mastocytosis/mast cell leukemia and during the first week of each cycle for those with acute myeloid leukemia. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Midostaurin is a CYP3A4 substrate and itraconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of itraconazole with twice daily doses of midostaurin increased Day 28 trough concentrations of midostaurin, CGP62221, and CGP52421 by 2.1-fold, 1.2-fold, and 1.3-fold respectively compared with day 21 trough levels with midostaurin alone.
Ivosidenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ivosidenib with midostaurin due to an increased risk of QT prolongation; midostaurin exposure may also be decreased. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QTc prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct any electrolyte abnormalities as clinically appropriate. Monitor for loss of efficacy of midostaurin. An interruption of therapy and dose reduction of ivosidenib may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Prolongation of the QTc interval and ventricular arrhythmias have been reported in patients treated with ivosidenib. QT prolongation was reported in patients who received midostaurin in clinical trials.
Ketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and midostaurin due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of midostaurin, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of midostaurin toxicity (e.g., gastrointestinal toxicity, hematologic toxicity, bleeding, and infection), particularly during the first week of midostaurin therapy for systemic mastocytosis/mast cell leukemia and the first week of each cycle of midostaurin therapy for acute myeloid leukemia. Consider interval assessments of QT by EKG. Midostaurin is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased the AUC values of midostaurin and its metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421 by 10.4-fold, 3.5-fold, and 1.2-fold, respectively.
lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with midostaurin may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP substrate and midostaurin is a BCRP inhibitor.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and clarithromycin due to the risk of increased midostaurin exposure which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions; concomitant use also increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use cannot be avoided, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of midostaurin toxicity, particularly during the first week of midostaurin therapy for those with systemic mastocytosis/mast cell leukemia and during the first week of each cycle for those with acute myeloid leukemia. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Midostaurin is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of one strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with a single dose of midostaurin increased the exposure of midostaurin and its active metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421 by 10.4-fold, 3.5-fold, and 1.2-fold, respectively. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with twice daily doses of midostaurin increased Day 28 trough concentrations of midostaurin, CGP62221, and CGP52421 by 2.1-fold, 1.2-fold, and 1.3-fold respectively compared with day 21 trough levels with midostaurin alone.
Lapatinib: (Major) Monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes if coadministration of lapatinib with midostaurin is necessary; correct electrolyte abnormalities prior to treatment. Prolongation of the QT interval was reported in patients who received midostaurin in clinical trials. Lapatinib has also been associated with concentration-dependent QT prolongation; ventricular arrhythmias and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been reported in postmarketing experience with lapatinib.
Lefamulin: (Major) Coadministration of lefamulin tablets is contraindicated with midostaurin due to increased midostaurin exposure which may result in QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid use of lefamulin injection with midostaurin. If coadministration of lefamulin injection cannot be avoided, ECG monitoring is recommended during treatment. Midostaurin is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate that has been associated with QT prolongation in clinical trials. Lefamulin is a CYP3A4 inhibitor that has a concentration dependent QTc prolongation effect. The pharmacodynamic interaction potential to prolong the QT interval of the electrocardiogram between lefamulin and other drugs that effect cardiac conduction is unknown.
Lenvatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lenvatinib with midostaurin due to the risk of QT prolongation. Prolongation of the QT interval has been reported with lenvatinib therapy. Prolongation of the QT interval was also reported in patients who received midostaurin in clinical trials.
Letermovir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in letermovir-related adverse reactions in patients who are NOT also receiving cyclosporine if concomitant use with midostaurin is necessary due to increased letermovir concentrations which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and letermovir WITH cyclosporine due to the risk of increased midostaurin exposure which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. If unavoidable, monitor for signs and symptoms of midostaurin toxicity, particularly during the first week of therapy for those with systemic mastocytosis/mast cell leukemia and during the first week of each cycle for those with acute myeloid leukemia. Midostaurin is a CYP3A4 substrate and an OATP1B1 inhibitor. Letermovir is a OATP1B1/3 substrate and a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; however, when given together with cyclosporine, the combined effect may be similar to a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of one strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with a single dose of midostaurin increased the exposure of midostaurin and its active metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421 by 10.4-fold, 3.5-fold, and 1.2-fold, respectively. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with twice daily doses of midostaurin increased Day 28 trough concentrations of midostaurin, CGP62221, and CGP52421 by 2.1-fold, 1.2-fold, and 1.3-fold respectively compared with day 21 trough levels with midostaurin alone.
Leuprolide: (Major) Concomitant use of midostaurin and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., leuprolide) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
levoFLOXacin: (Major) Concomitant use of levofloxacin and midostaurin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Levoketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and midostaurin due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of midostaurin, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of midostaurin toxicity (e.g., gastrointestinal toxicity, hematologic toxicity, bleeding, and infection), particularly during the first week of midostaurin therapy for systemic mastocytosis/mast cell leukemia and the first week of each cycle of midostaurin therapy for acute myeloid leukemia. Consider interval assessments of QT by EKG. Midostaurin is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased the AUC values of midostaurin and its metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421 by 10.4-fold, 3.5-fold, and 1.2-fold, respectively.
Lithium: (Major) Concomitant use of lithium and midostaurin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Lofexidine: (Major) Monitor ECG if lofexidine is coadministered with midostaurin due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Lofexidine prolongs the QT interval. In addition, there are postmarketing reports of torsade de pointes. QT prolongation was reported in patients who received midostaurin in clinical trials.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and lonafarnib due to the risk of increased midostaurin exposure which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of midostaurin toxicity, particularly during the first week of midostaurin therapy for those with systemic mastocytosis/mast cell leukemia and during the first week of each cycle for those with acute myeloid leukemia. Midostaurin is a CYP3A4 substrate and lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of one strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with a single dose of midostaurin increased the exposure of midostaurin and its active metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421 by 10.4-fold, 3.5-fold, and 1.2-fold, respectively. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with twice daily doses of midostaurin increased Day 28 trough concentrations of midostaurin, CGP62221, and CGP52421 by 2.1-fold, 1.2-fold, and 1.3-fold respectively compared with day 21 trough levels with midostaurin alone.
Loperamide: (Major) The concomitant use of midostaurin and loperamide may lead to additive QT interval prolongation. If these drugs are used together, consider electrocardiogram monitoring. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, and cardiac arrest.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Major) The concomitant use of midostaurin and loperamide may lead to additive QT interval prolongation. If these drugs are used together, consider electrocardiogram monitoring. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, and cardiac arrest.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lopinavir with midostaurin due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain a baseline ECG to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. Both drugs have been associated with QT prolongation. (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and ritonavir due to the risk of increased midostaurin exposure which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of midostaurin toxicity, particularly during the first week of midostaurin therapy for those with systemic mastocytosis/mast cell leukemia and during the first week of each cycle for those with acute myeloid leukemia. Midostaurin is a CYP3A4 substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of one strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with a single dose of midostaurin increased the exposure of midostaurin and its active metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421 by 10.4-fold, 3.5-fold, and 1.2-fold, respectively. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with twice daily doses of midostaurin increased Day 28 trough concentrations of midostaurin, CGP62221, and CGP52421 by 2.1-fold, 1.2-fold, and 1.3-fold respectively compared with day 21 trough levels with midostaurin alone.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and lumacaftor; ivacaftor as midostaurin exposure may be decreased, which may reduce its efficacy. Midostaurin is a CYP3A4 substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased the exposure of midostaurin and its metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421 by 96%, 92%, and 59%, respectively.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and lumacaftor; ivacaftor as midostaurin exposure may be decreased, which may reduce its efficacy. Midostaurin is a CYP3A4 substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased the exposure of midostaurin and its metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421 by 96%, 92%, and 59%, respectively.
Macimorelin: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as midostaurin. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. QT prolongation was also reported in patients who received midostaurin in clinical trials.
Maraviroc: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in maraviroc-related adverse reactions if coadministration with midostaurin is necessary. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of maraviroc. Maraviroc is an OATP1B1 substrate; midostaurin is an OATP1B1 inhibitor.
Mavorixafor: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and midostaurin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Mefloquine: (Major) The concomitant use of midostaurin and mefloquine may lead to additive QT interval prolongation. If these drugs are used together, consider electrocardiogram monitoring. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin. There is evidence that the use of halofantrine after mefloquine causes a significant lengthening of the QTc interval. Mefloquine alone has not been reported to cause QT prolongation. However, due to the lack of clinical data, mefloquine should be used with caution in patients receiving drugs that prolong the QT interval.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of meperidine and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with midostaurin is necessary. Consider increasing the dose of meperidine as needed. If midostaurin is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of meperidine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Meperidine is a substrate of CYP2B6; midostaurin is a weak CYP2B6 inducer. Concomitant use can decrease meperidine exposure resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Methadone: (Major) Concomitant use of midostaurin and methadone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Also monitor for reduced efficacy of methadone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with midostaurin is necessary. Consider increasing the dose of methadone as needed. If midostaurin is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of methadone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Methadone is a substrate of CYP3A4, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, and CYP2D6; midostaurin is a weak CYP2B6 inducer. Concomitant use can decrease methadone exposure resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
metroNIDAZOLE: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and midostaurin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and mifepristone due to the risk of increased midostaurin exposure which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions; concomitant use also increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use cannot be avoided, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of midostaurin toxicity, particularly during the first week of midostaurin therapy for those with systemic mastocytosis/mast cell leukemia and during the first week of each cycle for those with acute myeloid leukemia. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Midostaurin is a CYP3A4 substrate and mifepristone is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of one strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with a single dose of midostaurin increased the exposure of midostaurin and its active metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421 by 10.4-fold, 3.5-fold, and 1.2-fold, respectively. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with twice daily doses of midostaurin increased Day 28 trough concentrations of midostaurin, CGP62221, and CGP52421 by 2.1-fold, 1.2-fold, and 1.3-fold respectively compared with day 21 trough levels with midostaurin alone.
Mirtazapine: (Major) Concomitant use of mirtazapine and midostaurin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Mitotane: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and mitotane as midostaurin exposure may be decreased, which may reduce its efficacy. Midostaurin is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased the exposure of midostaurin and its metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421 by 96%, 92%, and 59%, respectively.
Mobocertinib: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and midostaurin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Moxifloxacin: (Major) The concomitant use of midostaurin and moxifloxacin may lead to additive QT interval prolongation. If these drugs are used together, consider electrocardiogram monitoring. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin. Quinolones have been associated with a risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Although extremely rare, TdP has been reported during postmarketing surveillance of moxifloxacin.
Nefazodone: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and nefazodone due to the risk of increased midostaurin exposure which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of midostaurin toxicity, particularly during the first week of midostaurin therapy for those with systemic mastocytosis/mast cell leukemia and during the first week of each cycle for those with acute myeloid leukemia. Midostaurin is a CYP3A4 substrate and nefazodone is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of one strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with a single dose of midostaurin increased the exposure of midostaurin and its active metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421 by 10.4-fold, 3.5-fold, and 1.2-fold, respectively. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with twice daily doses of midostaurin increased Day 28 trough concentrations of midostaurin, CGP62221, and CGP52421 by 2.1-fold, 1.2-fold, and 1.3-fold respectively compared with day 21 trough levels with midostaurin alone.
Nelfinavir: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and nelfinavir due to the risk of increased midostaurin exposure which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of midostaurin toxicity, particularly during the first week of midostaurin therapy for those with systemic mastocytosis/mast cell leukemia and during the first week of each cycle for those with acute myeloid leukemia. Midostaurin is a CYP3A4 substrate and nelfinavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of one strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with a single dose of midostaurin increased the exposure of midostaurin and its active metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421 by 10.4-fold, 3.5-fold, and 1.2-fold, respectively. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with twice daily doses of midostaurin increased Day 28 trough concentrations of midostaurin, CGP62221, and CGP52421 by 2.1-fold, 1.2-fold, and 1.3-fold respectively compared with day 21 trough levels with midostaurin alone.
Nilotinib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of nilotinib and midostaurin; significant prolongation of the QT interval may occur. If concomitant use is required, consider ECG monitoring. Sudden death and QT prolongation have been reported in patients who received nilotinib therapy. In clinical trials, QT prolongation was reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and ritonavir due to the risk of increased midostaurin exposure which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of midostaurin toxicity, particularly during the first week of midostaurin therapy for those with systemic mastocytosis/mast cell leukemia and during the first week of each cycle for those with acute myeloid leukemia. Midostaurin is a CYP3A4 substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of one strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with a single dose of midostaurin increased the exposure of midostaurin and its active metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421 by 10.4-fold, 3.5-fold, and 1.2-fold, respectively. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with twice daily doses of midostaurin increased Day 28 trough concentrations of midostaurin, CGP62221, and CGP52421 by 2.1-fold, 1.2-fold, and 1.3-fold respectively compared with day 21 trough levels with midostaurin alone.
Ofloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of ofloxacin and midostaurin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
OLANZapine: (Major) The concomitant use of midostaurin and olanzapine may lead to additive QT interval prolongation. If these drugs are used together, consider electrocardiogram monitoring. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin. There have been case reports of significant QT prolongation occurring with olanzapine therapy.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Major) Concomitant use of midostaurin and fluoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Major) The concomitant use of midostaurin and olanzapine may lead to additive QT interval prolongation. If these drugs are used together, consider electrocardiogram monitoring. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin. There have been case reports of significant QT prolongation occurring with olanzapine therapy.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Major) The concomitant use of midostaurin and olanzapine may lead to additive QT interval prolongation. If these drugs are used together, consider electrocardiogram monitoring. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin. There have been case reports of significant QT prolongation occurring with olanzapine therapy.
Ondansetron: (Major) Concomitant use of ondansetron and midostaurin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Do not exceed 16 mg of IV ondansetron in a single dose; the degree of QT prolongation associated with ondansetron significantly increases above this dose.
Osilodrostat: (Major) Monitor cortisol concentration and patient's signs and symptoms during coadministration of osilodrostat and midostaurin. Concurrent use may decrease osilodrostat exposure and reduce its efficacy; an increase in osilodrostat dose may be necessary. After discontinuation of midostaurin, monitor cortisol concentration and patient's signs and symptoms; a reduction in osilodrostat dose may be needed. Osilodrostat is a CYP2B6 substrate and midostaurin is a strong CYP2B6 inducer. Additionally, monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with midostaurin; both drugs are associated with QT prolongation.
Osimertinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of midostaurin with osimertinib if possible due to the risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, periodically monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; an interruption of osimertinib therapy with dose reduction or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Concentration-dependent QTc prolongation occurred during clinical trials of osimertinib. QT prolongation was also reported in patients who received midostaurin in clinical trials.
Oxaliplatin: (Major) Monitor electrolytes and ECGs for QT prolongation if coadministration of midostaurin with oxaliplatin is necessary; correct electrolyte abnormalities prior to administration of oxaliplatin. QT prolongation was reported in patients who received midostaurin in clinical trials. QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including fatal torsade de pointes have also been reported with oxaliplatin use in postmarketing experience.
Ozanimod: (Major) In general, do not initiate ozanimod in patients taking midostaurin due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary, consider ECG monitoring. Ozanimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ozanimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. QT prolongation was reported in patients who received midostaurin in clinical trials.
Pacritinib: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and midostaurin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Paliperidone: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and paliperidone if possible; both drugs have been reported to increase the QT interval. If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor for evidence of QT prolongation (e.g., electrocardiograms) during concurrent use. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin. Paliperidone has been associated with QT prolongation; TdP and ventricular fibrillation have been reported in the setting of overdose. According to the manufacturer of paliperidone, the drug should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to cause QT prolongation. If coadministration is necessary and the patient has known risk factors for cardiac disease or arrhythmias, close monitoring is essential.
Panobinostat: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and panobinostat; both drugs have been reported to increase the QT interval. Obtain an electrocardiogram at baseline and periodically during panobinostat treatment. Hold panobinostat if the QTcF increases to 480 milliseconds or greater during therapy; permanently discontinue if QT prolongation does not resolve. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin. QT prolongation has been reported with panobinostat therapy in patients with multiple myeloma in a clinical trial.
Pasireotide: (Major) The concomitant use of midostaurin and pasireotide may lead to additive QT interval prolongation. If these drugs are used together, consider electrocardiogram (ECG) monitoring. Obtain a baseline ECG prior to starting pasireotide and perform serum electrolyte monitoring; patients receiving long-acting pasireotide who are at risk for QT prolongation should also be monitored for an effect on the QT interval at the time of maximum drug concentration (21 days after injection). In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin and in patients who received pasireotide.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pazopanib and midostaurin due to the potential for increased pazopanib exposure. Pazopanib is a BCRP substrate; midostaurin is a BCRP inhibitor. Consider selection of an alternative concomitant medication with no or minimal potential to inhibit BCRP. Concomitant use of midostaurin and pazopanib also increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Pentamidine: (Major) The concomitant use of midostaurin and pentamidine may lead to additive QT interval prolongation. If these drugs are used together, consider electrocardiogram monitoring. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin. Systemically adminstered pentamidine is considered to be associated with a well-established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Extremely limited evidence in case reports suggest inhaled pentamidine may be associated with possible TdP; however, systemic absorption of inhaled pentamidine is limited.
Perphenazine: (Minor) The concomitant use of midostaurin and perphenazine may lead to additive QT interval prolongation. If these drugs are used together, consider electrocardiogram monitoring. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin. Additionally, perphenazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, perphenazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with other drugs that have a risk of QT prolongation.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Minor) The concomitant use of midostaurin and perphenazine may lead to additive QT interval prolongation. If these drugs are used together, consider electrocardiogram monitoring. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin. Additionally, perphenazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, perphenazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with other drugs that have a risk of QT prolongation.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and phenobarbital as midostaurin exposure may be decreased, which may reduce its efficacy. Midostaurin is a CYP3A4 substrate and phenobarbital is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased the exposure of midostaurin and its metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421 by 96%, 92%, and 59%, respectively.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and phenobarbital as midostaurin exposure may be decreased, which may reduce its efficacy. Midostaurin is a CYP3A4 substrate and phenobarbital is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased the exposure of midostaurin and its metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421 by 96%, 92%, and 59%, respectively.
Phenytoin: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and phenytoin as significantly decreased exposure of midostaurin and its active metabolites may occur resulting in decreased efficacy. Midostaurin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4; phenytoin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. The AUC values of midostaurin and its metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421 decreased by 96%, 92%, and 59%, respectively, when midostaurin was administered with another strong CYP3A4 inducer in a drug interaction study.
Pimavanserin: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and pimavanserin; both drugs have been reported to increase the QT interval. If coadministration cannot be avoided, consider obtaining electrocardiograms to monitor the QT interval. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin. Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation; one pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic analysis suggested a concentration-dependent QTc interval prolongation in the therapeutic range.
Pimozide: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for TdP, use of midostaurin with pimozide is contraindicated. Pimozide is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin.
Pitavastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in pitavastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with midostaurin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase pitavastatin exposure. Pitavastatin is an OATP1B1 substrate; midostaurin is an OATP1B1 inhibitor.
Pitolisant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with midostaurin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If coadministration is necessary, consider interval assessments of QT by EKG. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. QT prolongation was reported in patients who received midostaurin in clinical trials.
Ponesimod: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking midostaurin due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP); additive immunosuppression may also occur which may extend the duration or severity of immune suppression. If treatment initiation is considered, monitor ECGs and for signs and symptoms of infection. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. QT prolongation was reported in patients who received midostaurin in clinical trials.
Posaconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of midostaurin and posaconazole due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase midostaurin exposure and the risk for other midostaurin-related adverse effects; midostaurin is a CYP3A substrate and posaconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Pravastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in pravastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with midostaurin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase pravastatin exposure. Pravastatin is an OATP1B1/3 substrate; midostaurin is an OATP1B1 inhibitor.
Primaquine: (Major) Concomitant use of primaquine and midostaurin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Primidone: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and primidone as midostaurin exposure may be decreased, which may reduce its efficacy. Midostaurin is a CYP3A4 substrate and primidone is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased the exposure of midostaurin and its metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421 by 96%, 92%, and 59%, respectively.
Procainamide: (Major) The concomitant use of midostaurin and procainamide may lead to additive QT interval prolongation. If these drugs are used together, consider electrocardiogram (ECG) monitoring. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin. Procainamide is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes.
Prochlorperazine: (Minor) The concomitant use of midostaurin and prochlorperazine may lead to additive QT interval prolongation. If these drugs are used together, consider electrocardiogram monitoring. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin. Additionally, prochlorperazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Prochlorperazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with other drugs that have a risk of QT prolongation.
Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of promethazine and midostaurin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of promethazine and midostaurin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of promethazine and midostaurin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Propafenone: (Major) Concomitant use of propafenone and midostaurin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
QUEtiapine: (Major) Concomitant use of quetiapine and midostaurin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
quiNIDine: (Major) The concomitant use of midostaurin and quinidine may lead to additive QT interval prolongation. If these drugs are used together, consider electrocardiogram monitoring. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin. Quinidine is a Class IA antiarrhythmic agent; it is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Quinidine should be discontinued if significant QT prolongation or TdP occur during therapy.
quiNINE: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and quinine; both drugs have been reported to increase the QT interval. If coadministration cannot be avoided, consider obtaining electrocardiograms to monitor the QT interval. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin. QT prolongation has been reported with quinine therapy; rarely, potentially fatal cardiac arrhythmias (e.g., torsades de pointes and ventricular fibrillation) have occurred.
Quizartinib: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and midostaurin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ranolazine: (Major) The concomitant use of midostaurin and ranolazine may lead to additive QT interval prolongation. If these drugs are used together, consider electrocardiogram monitoring. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin. Ranolazine is associated with dose- and plasma concentration-related increases in the QTc interval. Additionally, ranolazine increased the QTc interval compared with placebo in a clinical trial.
Relacorilant: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and relacorilant as significantly increased exposure of midostaurin and its active metabolites may occur resulting in increased toxicity. Consider an alternative agent to replace relacorilant. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of midostaurin toxicity (e.g., gastrointestinal toxicity, hematologic toxicity, bleeding, and infection), particularly during the first week of midostaurin therapy for systemic mastocytosis/mast cell leukemia and the first week of each cycle of midostaurin therapy for acute myeloid leukemia. Midostaurin is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. The AUC values of midostaurin and its metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421 increased by 10.4-fold, 3.5-fold, and 1.2-fold, respectively, when midostaurin was administered with another strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Relugolix: (Major) Consider interval assessments of QT by EKG if midostaurin is taken concurrently with relugolix. QT prolongation was reported in patients who received midostaurin in clinical trials. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Consider interval assessments of QT by EKG if midostaurin is taken concurrently with relugolix. QT prolongation was reported in patients who received midostaurin in clinical trials. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Resmetirom: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of resmetirom and midostaurin due to the risk for increased resmetirom exposure which may increase the risk for resmetirom-related adverse effects. Resmetirom is an OATP1B1 substrate and midostaurin is an OATP1B1 inhibitor.
Revefenacin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of revefenacin and midostaurin. Concomitant use may increase exposure to the active metabolite of revefenacin and the risk for anticholinergic adverse effects. The active metabolite of revefenacin is a substrate of OATP1B1 and OATP1B3; midostaurin is an inhibitor of OATP1B1.
Revumenib: (Major) Concomitant use of revumenib and midostaurin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ribociclib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and ribociclib due to the risk of increased midostaurin exposure which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions; concomitant use also increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use cannot be avoided, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of midostaurin toxicity, particularly during the first week of midostaurin therapy for those with systemic mastocytosis/mast cell leukemia and during the first week of each cycle for those with acute myeloid leukemia. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Midostaurin is a CYP3A4 substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of one strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with a single dose of midostaurin increased the exposure of midostaurin and its active metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421 by 10.4-fold, 3.5-fold, and 1.2-fold, respectively. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with twice daily doses of midostaurin increased Day 28 trough concentrations of midostaurin, CGP62221, and CGP52421 by 2.1-fold, 1.2-fold, and 1.3-fold respectively compared with day 21 trough levels with midostaurin alone.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and ribociclib due to the risk of increased midostaurin exposure which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions; concomitant use also increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use cannot be avoided, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of midostaurin toxicity, particularly during the first week of midostaurin therapy for those with systemic mastocytosis/mast cell leukemia and during the first week of each cycle for those with acute myeloid leukemia. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Midostaurin is a CYP3A4 substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of one strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with a single dose of midostaurin increased the exposure of midostaurin and its active metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421 by 10.4-fold, 3.5-fold, and 1.2-fold, respectively. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with twice daily doses of midostaurin increased Day 28 trough concentrations of midostaurin, CGP62221, and CGP52421 by 2.1-fold, 1.2-fold, and 1.3-fold respectively compared with day 21 trough levels with midostaurin alone.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and rifampin as midostaurin exposure may be decreased, which may reduce its efficacy. Midostaurin is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with rifampin decreased the exposure of midostaurin and its metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421 by 96%, 92%, and 59%, respectively.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and rifapentine as significantly decreased exposure of midostaurin and its active metabolites may occur resulting in decreased efficacy. Midostaurin is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. The AUC values of midostaurin and its metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421 decreased by 96%, 92%, and 59%, respectively, when midostaurin was administered with another strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Rilpivirine: (Major) The concomitant use of midostaurin and rilpivirine may lead to additive QT interval prolongation. If these drugs are used together, consider electrocardiogram monitoring. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation.
Rimegepant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with midostaurin; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a substrate of BCRP and midostaurin is a BCRP inhibitor.
risperiDONE: (Major) The concomitant use of midostaurin and risperidone may lead to additive QT interval prolongation. If these drugs are used together, consider electrocardiogram (ECG) monitoring. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin. Pooled data from controlled trials indicate there are no statistically significant differences in mean changes from baseline in ECG parameters including QT, QTc, and PR intervals when risperidone is compared to placebo. However, post-marketing reports of overdose indicate that QT prolongation and torsade de pointes have occurred.
Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and ritonavir due to the risk of increased midostaurin exposure which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of midostaurin toxicity, particularly during the first week of midostaurin therapy for those with systemic mastocytosis/mast cell leukemia and during the first week of each cycle for those with acute myeloid leukemia. Midostaurin is a CYP3A4 substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of one strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with a single dose of midostaurin increased the exposure of midostaurin and its active metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421 by 10.4-fold, 3.5-fold, and 1.2-fold, respectively. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with twice daily doses of midostaurin increased Day 28 trough concentrations of midostaurin, CGP62221, and CGP52421 by 2.1-fold, 1.2-fold, and 1.3-fold respectively compared with day 21 trough levels with midostaurin alone.
romiDEPsin: (Major) The concomitant use of midostaurin and romidepsin may lead to additive QT interval prolongation. If these drugs are used together, consider electrocardiogram monitoring at baseline and periodically during treatment. Correct electrolyte abnormalities, particularly potassium and magnesium levels, prior to starting romidepsin. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin and in patients who received romidepsin.
Rosuvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with midostaurin. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a BCRP and OATP1B1/3 substrate and midostaurin is a BCRP and OATP1B1 inhibitor.
Rosuvastatin; Ezetimibe: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with midostaurin. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a BCRP and OATP1B1/3 substrate and midostaurin is a BCRP and OATP1B1 inhibitor.
Saquinavir: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of midostaurin and saquinavir due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase midostaurin exposure and the risk for other midostaurin-related adverse effects; midostaurin is a CYP3A substrate and saquinavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) vaccines: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) mRNA Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) Recombinant Spike Protein Nanoparticle Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
Selpercatinib: (Major) Monitor ECGs more frequently for QT prolongation if coadministration of selpercatinib with midostaurin is necessary due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Concentration-dependent QT prolongation has been observed with selpercatinib therapy. QT prolongation was reported in patients who received midostaurin in clinical trials.
Sertraline: (Major) Concomitant use of sertraline and midostaurin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with sertraline is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Sevoflurane: (Major) The concomitant use of midostaurin and halogenated anesthetics may lead to additive QT interval prolongation. If these drugs are used together, consider electrocardiogram monitoring. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin.
Simvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in simvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with midostaurin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase simvastatin exposure. Simvastatin is an OATP1B1 substrate; midostaurin is an OATP1B1 inhibitor.
Siponimod: (Major) In general, do not initiate treatment with siponimod in patients receiving midostaurin due to the potential for QT prolongation. Consult a cardiologist regarding appropriate monitoring if siponimod use is required. Siponimod therapy prolonged the QT interval at recommended doses in a clinical study. QT prolongation was reported in patients who received midostaurin in clinical trials.
Sodium Iodide I-131: (Moderate) Monitor for bone marrow suppression during concomitant use of sodium iodide I-131 and antineoplastic agents. Concomitant use of bone marrow depressants may enhance the depression of the hematopoietic system caused by the use of large doses of sodium iodide I-131.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir: (Major) Concomitant use of velpatasvir with midostaurin is not recommended due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of velpatasvir, which may result in loss of antiviral efficacy. Velpatasvir is a CYP2B6 substrate and midostaurin is a CYP2B6 inducer.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir; Voxilaprevir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of voxilaprevir and midostaurin. Concomitant use may increase voxilaprevir exposure and the risk of voxilaprevir-related adverse reactions. Voxilaprevir is a substrate of OATP1B1/3; midostaurin is an OATP1B1 inhibitor. (Major) Concomitant use of velpatasvir with midostaurin is not recommended due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of velpatasvir, which may result in loss of antiviral efficacy. Velpatasvir is a CYP2B6 substrate and midostaurin is a CYP2B6 inducer.
Solifenacin: (Major) The concomitant use of midostaurin and solifenacin may lead to additive QT interval prolongation. If these drugs are used together, consider electrocardiogram monitoring. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin. QT prolongation and torsade de pointes have been reported during postmarketing surveillance of solifenacin.
SORAfenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sorafenib with midostaurin due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor electrocardiograms and correct electrolyte abnormalities. An interruption or discontinuation of sorafenib therapy may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Sorafenib is associated with QTc prolongation. QT prolongation was also reported in patients who received midostaurin in clinical trials.
Sotalol: (Major) Concomitant use of sotalol and midostaurin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and St. Johns Wort as midostaurin exposure may be decreased, which may reduce its efficacy. Midostaurin is a CYP3A4 substrate and St. Johns Wort is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased the exposure of midostaurin and its metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421 by 96%, 92%, and 59%, respectively.
SUNItinib: (Major) Consider obtaining electrocardiograms to monitor the QT interval if midostaurin is used with other drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as sunitinib. Sunitinib can cause dose-dependent QT prolongation, which may increase the risk for ventricular arrhythmias, including torsades de points (TdP). Prolongation of the QT interval was also reported in patients who received midostaurin in clinical trials.
Tacrolimus: (Major) The concomitant use of midostaurin and tacrolimus may lead to additive QT interval prolongation. If these drugs are used together, consider electrocardiogram monitoring. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin. There are post-marketing reports of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes with systemic tacrolimus administration.
Talazoparib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in talazoparib-related adverse reactions if concomitant use of midostaurin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase talazoparib exposure. Talazoparib is a BCRP substrate and midostaurin is a BCRP inhibitor.
Taletrectinib: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and midostaurin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tamoxifen: (Major) Concomitant use of tamoxifen and midostaurin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Telavancin: (Major) The concomitant use of midostaurin and telavancin may lead to additive QT interval prolongation. If these drugs are used together, consider electrocardiogram monitoring. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin and in patients who received telavancin.
Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with midostaurin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a BCRP substrate and midostaurin is a BCRP inhibitor.
Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with midostaurin may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP substrate and midostaurin is a BCRP inhibitor.
Tetrabenazine: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and tetrabenazine; both drugs have been reported to increase the QT interval. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin.
Thioridazine: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), use of midostaurin with thioridazine is contraindicated. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin. Thioridazine is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and TdP.
Tipranavir: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and tipranavir due to the risk of increased midostaurin exposure which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of midostaurin toxicity, particularly during the first week of midostaurin therapy for those with systemic mastocytosis/mast cell leukemia and during the first week of each cycle for those with acute myeloid leukemia. Midostaurin is a CYP3A4 substrate and tipranavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of one strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with a single dose of midostaurin increased the exposure of midostaurin and its active metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421 by 10.4-fold, 3.5-fold, and 1.2-fold, respectively. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with twice daily doses of midostaurin increased Day 28 trough concentrations of midostaurin, CGP62221, and CGP52421 by 2.1-fold, 1.2-fold, and 1.3-fold respectively compared with day 21 trough levels with midostaurin alone.
Tolterodine: (Major) The concomitant use of midostaurin and tolterodine may lead to additive QT interval prolongation. If these drugs are used together, consider electrocardiogram monitoring. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin. Tolterodine has been associated with dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval, especially in poor CYP2D6 metabolizers.
Topotecan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of midostaurin with oral topotecan due to increased topotecan exposure; midostaurin may be administered with intravenous topotecan. Oral topotecan is a substrate of the Breast Cancer Resistance Protein (BCRP) and midostaurin is a BCRP inhibitor. Coadministration increases the risk of topotecan-related adverse reactions.
Toremifene: (Major) Avoid coadministration of midostaurin with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Prolongation of the QT interval was reported in patients who received midostaurin in clinical trials.
traZODone: (Major) Concomitant use of trazodone and midostaurin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Triclabendazole: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and midostaurin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Trifluoperazine: (Minor) The concomitant use of midostaurin and trifluoperazine may lead to additive QT interval prolongation. If these drugs are used together, consider electrocardiogram monitoring. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin. Additionally, trifluoperazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Trifluoperazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with other drugs that have a risk of QT prolongation.
Triptorelin: (Major) Consider periodic monitoring of EGCs for QT prolongation if coadministration of triptorelin and midostaurin is necessary. Prolongation of the QT interval was reported in patients who received midostaurin in clinical trials. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., triptorelin) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Tuberculin Purified Protein Derivative, PPD: (Moderate) Immunosuppressives may decrease the immunological response to tuberculin purified protein derivative, PPD. This suppressed reactivity can persist for up to 6 weeks after treatment discontinuation. Consider deferring the skin test until completion of the immunosuppressive therapy.
Tucatinib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and tucatinib due to the risk of increased midostaurin exposure which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of midostaurin toxicity, particularly during the first week of midostaurin therapy for those with systemic mastocytosis/mast cell leukemia and during the first week of each cycle for those with acute myeloid leukemia. Midostaurin is a CYP3A4 substrate and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of one strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with a single dose of midostaurin increased the exposure of midostaurin and its active metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421 by 10.4-fold, 3.5-fold, and 1.2-fold, respectively. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with twice daily doses of midostaurin increased Day 28 trough concentrations of midostaurin, CGP62221, and CGP52421 by 2.1-fold, 1.2-fold, and 1.3-fold respectively compared with day 21 trough levels with midostaurin alone.
Ubrogepant: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with midostaurin. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a substrate of the BCRP drug transporter; midostaurin is a BCRP inhibitor.
Vandetanib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with midostaurin due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Prolongation of the QT interval was also reported in patients who received midostaurin in clinical trials.
Vardenafil: (Major) Concomitant use of vardenafil and midostaurin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Vemurafenib: (Major) The concomitant use of midostaurin and vemurafenib may lead to additive QT interval prolongation. Monitor ECG and serum electrolytes prior to and during vemurafenib therapy. If the QTc interval exceeds 500 milliseconds (msec) during therapy, hold vemurafenib; resume at a lower dose once the QTc is below 500 msec. Permanently discontinue vemurafenib if the QTc increases to greater than 500 msec and to greater than 60 msec from baseline after the correction of associated risk factors. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin. QTc prolongation was reported in patients who received vemurafenib in a multicenter, open-label, single-arm trial.
Venlafaxine: (Major) Concomitant use of venlafaxine and midostaurin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Vepdegestrant: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and midostaurin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Voclosporin: (Major) Consider interval assessments of QT by EKG if midostaurin is taken concurrently with voclosporin. QT prolongation was reported in patients who received midostaurin in clinical trials. Voclosporin has been associated with QT prolongation at supratherapeutic doses.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and clarithromycin due to the risk of increased midostaurin exposure which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions; concomitant use also increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use cannot be avoided, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of midostaurin toxicity, particularly during the first week of midostaurin therapy for those with systemic mastocytosis/mast cell leukemia and during the first week of each cycle for those with acute myeloid leukemia. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Midostaurin is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of one strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with a single dose of midostaurin increased the exposure of midostaurin and its active metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421 by 10.4-fold, 3.5-fold, and 1.2-fold, respectively. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with twice daily doses of midostaurin increased Day 28 trough concentrations of midostaurin, CGP62221, and CGP52421 by 2.1-fold, 1.2-fold, and 1.3-fold respectively compared with day 21 trough levels with midostaurin alone.
Voriconazole: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and voriconazole due to the risk of increased midostaurin exposure which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions; concomitant use also increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use cannot be avoided, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of midostaurin toxicity, particularly during the first week of midostaurin therapy for those with systemic mastocytosis/mast cell leukemia and during the first week of each cycle for those with acute myeloid leukemia. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Midostaurin is a CYP3A4 substrate and voriconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of one strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with a single dose of midostaurin increased the exposure of midostaurin and its active metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421 by 10.4-fold, 3.5-fold, and 1.2-fold, respectively. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor with twice daily doses of midostaurin increased Day 28 trough concentrations of midostaurin, CGP62221, and CGP52421 by 2.1-fold, 1.2-fold, and 1.3-fold respectively compared with day 21 trough levels with midostaurin alone.
Vorinostat: (Major) The concomitant use of midostaurin and vorinostat may lead to additive QT interval prolongation. If these drugs are used together, consider electrocardiogram monitoring. Correct any electrolyte imbalance prior to starting vorinostat; monitor serum electrolytes during therapy. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin. QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received vorinostat in a clinical study and in a retrospective analysis; however, the QTc interval was not prolonged following a single 800-mg vorinostat dose in a randomized, 2-period, crossover study designed to assess the impact of vorinostat on ventricular repolarization in patients with advanced cancer.
Zidesamtinib: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and midostaurin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ziftomenib: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and midostaurin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ziprasidone: (Major) Concomitant use of ziprasidone and midostaurin should be avoided due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Clinical trial data indicate that ziprasidone causes QT prolongation; there are postmarketing reports of torsade de pointes (TdP) in patients with multiple confounding factors. QT prolongation was reported in patients who received midostaurin in clinical trials. Consider obtaining electrocardiograms to monitor the QT interval if ziprasidone and midostaurin are used together.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    abdominal pain, colitis, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, gastritis, hemorrhoids, nausea, stomatitis, vomiting
    General Information
    Gastrointestinal toxicity was reported with midostaurin therapy in clinical trials. Administer prophylactic antiemetic therapy. Temporary interruption of therapy and a dosage reduction may be necessary in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis who develop severe GI toxicity. In a phase III trial, GI adverse events that occurred more often in patients with newly diagnosed FLT3-mutated acute myelogenous leukemia who received midostaurin (n = 229; n = 345 for grade 3 or higher adverse events) compared with placebo (n = 226) in combination with daunorubicin and cytarabine included nausea (83% vs. 70%), mucositis/radiation mucositis/stomatitis/laryngeal pain (66% vs. 62%), vomiting (61% vs. 53%), and hemorrhoids (15% vs. 11%); grade 3 or higher nausea (6%), mucositis (11%), and vomiting (3%) were reported in midostaurin-treated patients. In this trial, nausea (47% vs. 18%) and vomiting (19% vs. 5%) were reported more frequently in patients in remission who received midostaurin (n = 120) compared with placebo (n = 85) following induction and consolidation therapy. In a pooled analysis from 2 nonrandomized trials (n = 142), nausea (82%; grade 3 or higher, 6%), vomiting (68%; grade 3 or higher, 6%), diarrhea/gastro-enteritis/colitis (54%; grade 3 or higher, 8%), abdominal pain (34%; grade 3 or higher, 6%), constipation (29%; grade 3 or higher, less than 1%), dyspepsia (6%), and gastritis/erosive gastritis/hemorrhagic gastritis (3%) were reported in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis (SM)who received midostaurin. The median time to nausea onset was 9 days and the median time to vomiting onset was 1 month in patients with SM; 75% of cases of nausea occurred within the first 3 months of starting midostaurin.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      colitis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspepsia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      gastritis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hemorrhoids
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      stomatitis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    bronchospasm, cough, dyspnea, interstitial lung disease, pleural effusion, pneumonitis, pulmonary edema
    General Information
    Pulmonary toxicity was reported with midostaurin in clinical trials. Monitor patients for pulmonary toxicity; discontinue midostaurin in patients who experience signs or symptoms of interstitial lung disease or pneumonitis without an infectious etiology. Pleural effusion (6%) and pneumonitis (11%) occurred in patients who received midostaurin in combination with daunorubicin and cytarabine (n = 229; n = 345 for grade 3 or higher adverse events) for the treatment of newly diagnosed FLT3-mutated acute myelogenous leukemia in a randomized, placebo-controlled phase 3 trial. In a pooled analysis from 2 nonrandomized trials (n = 142), dyspnea/bronchospasm/respiratory failure (23%; grade 3 or higher, 7%), cough (18%; grade 3 or higher, less than 1%), pleural effusion (13%; grade 3 or higher, 4%), oropharyngeal pain (4%), pulmonary edema/congestion (3%), interstitial lung disease (1%), and pneumonitis (less than 1%) were reported in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis who received midostaurin. Interstitial lung disease has also been reported in postmarketing surveillance of midostaurin.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      bronchospasm
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pleural effusion
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pneumonitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pulmonary edema
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      interstitial lung disease
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anemia, leukopenia, lymphopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia
    General Information
    Hematologic toxicity was reported with midostaurin therapy in clinical trials. In patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis, evaluate complete blood counts including a differential prior to therapy, at least weekly for the first 4 weeks, every other week for the next 8 weeks, and monthly thereafter during midostaurin therapy. Temporary interruption of therapy and a dosage reduction may be necessary in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis who develop severe hematologic toxicity. Grade 3 and 4 febrile neutropenia occurred in 84% of patients who received midostaurin (n = 345) compared with 83% of patients who received placebo (n = 335) in combination with daunorubicin and cytarabine for the treatment of newly diagnosed FLT3-mutated acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) in a phase 3 trial. In a pooled analysis from 2 nonrandomized trials (n = 142), lymphopenia (66%; grade 3 or higher, 42%), leukopenia (61%; grade 3 or higher, 19%), anemia (60%; grade 3 or higher, 38%), thrombocytopenia (50%; grade 3 or higher, 27%), neutropenia (49%; grade 3 or higher, 22%), and febrile neutropenia (8%) were reported in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis who received midostaurin. Pediatric patients may be at risk for prolonged severe neutropenia and thrombocytopenia with midostaurin therapy; the safety and efficacy of midostaurin have not been established in pediatric patients. Prolonged grade 4 neutropenia and thrombocytopenia occurred in 2 of 4 pediatric patients with AML who received an unapproved formulation of midostaurin in combination with chemotherapy in a clinical trial; these patients had also received azole antifungals as concomitant therapy.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      lymphopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      anemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      neutropenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      leukopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
    Headline
    epistaxis, GI bleeding, hematoma, petechiae, prolonged bleeding time
    General Information
    In a phase III trial, bleeding events that occurred more often in patients with newly diagnosed FLT3-mutated acute myelogenous leukemia who received midostaurin (n = 229; n = 345 for grade 3 or higher adverse events) compared with placebo (n = 226) in combination with daunorubicin and cytarabine included petechiae (36% vs. 27%), epistaxis (28% vs. 24%), and prolonged bleeding time/activated partial thromboplastin time (13% vs. 8%); grade 3 or higher petechiae (1%), epistaxis (3%), and prolonged activated partial thromboplastin time (8%) were reported in midostaurin-treated patients. In a pooled analysis from 2 nonrandomized trials (n = 142), GI bleeding/hemorrhoid bleeding/duodenal ulcer bleeding (14%; grade 3 or higher, 9%), epistaxis (12%; grade 3 or higher, 3%), and hematoma (6%) were reported in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis who received midostaurin.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      epistaxis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      GI bleeding
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hematoma
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      petechiae
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      prolonged bleeding time
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    dizziness, headache, tremor
    General Information
    Headache occurred in 46% of patients who received midostaurin (n = 229; n = 345 for grade 3 or higher adverse events) compared with 38% of patients who received placebo (n = 226) in combination with daunorubicin and cytarabine for the treatment of newly diagnosed FLT3-mutated acute myelogenous leukemia in a phase III trial; tremor (4%) and grade 3 or higher headache (3%) occurred in midostaurin-treated patients. In a pooled analysis from 2 nonrandomized trials (n = 142), headache/sinus headache (26%; grade 3 or higher, 1%), dizziness (13%), attention disturbance (7%), tremor (6%), and mental status changes (4%) were reported in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis who received midostaurin.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      tremor
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    arthralgia, back pain, bone pain, musculoskeletal pain
    General Information
    In a phase III trial, musculoskeletal adverse events that occurred more often in patients with newly diagnosed FLT3-mutated acute myelogenous leukemia who received midostaurin (n = 229; n = 345 for grade 3 or higher adverse events) compared with placebo (n = 226) in combination with daunorubicin and cytarabine included musculoskeletal pain/back pain/bone pain/extremity pain (33% vs. 31%) and arthralgia (14% vs. 8%); grade 3 or higher musculoskeletal pain (5%) and arthralgia (less than 1%) were reported in midostaurin-treated patients. In a pooled analysis from 2 nonrandomized trials (n = 142), musculoskeletal pain/back pain/extremity pain (35%; grade 3 or higher, 4%) and arthralgia (19%; grade 3 or higher, 2%) were reported in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis who received midostaurin.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      back pain
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      bone pain
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      musculoskeletal pain
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    cystitis, infection, pharyngitis, sinusitis
    General Information
    Infection has been reported with midostaurin in clinical trials; some cases were fatal. In a phase III trial, infection-related adverse events that occurred more often in patients with newly diagnosed FLT3-mutated acute myelogenous leukemia who received midostaurin (n = 229; n = 345 for grade 3 or higher adverse events) compared with placebo (n = 226) in combination with daunorubicin and cytarabine included device-related infection (24% vs. 17%) and upper respiratory tract infection/naso-pharyngitis/sinusitis (20% vs. 15%); cellulitis/erysipelas (7%), fungal infection (7%), and grade 3 or higher device-related infection (16%) and upper respiratory tract infection (4%) were reported in midostaurin-treated patients. Fungal infection included bronchopulmonary aspergillosis, fungal pneumonia, splenic fungal infection, and hepatic candidiasis. In a pooled analysis from 2 nonrandomized trials (n = 142), upper respiratory tract infection/naso-pharyngitis (30%; grade 3 or higher, 1%), urinary tract infection/cystitis (16%; grade 3 or higher, 3%), pneumonia/lung infection (10%; grade 3 or higher, 8%), herpes virus infection including oral herpes and herpes zoster (10%; grade 3 or higher, 1%), bronchitis (6%), cellulitis/erysipelas (5%), and sepsis (9%) including staphylococcal/Enterobacter/Escherichia sepsis were reported in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis who received midostaurin.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cystitis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pharyngitis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      sinusitis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    acute febrile neutrophilic dermatosis, erythema multiforme, hyperhidrosis, maculopapular rash, rash, xerosis
    General Information
    Hyperhidrosis occurred in 14% of patients who received midostaurin (n = 229) compared with 8% of patients who received placebo (n = 226) in combination with daunorubicin and cytarabine for the treatment of newly diagnosed FLT3-mutated acute myelogenous leukemia in a phase 3 trial; xerosis (7%) was also reported in midostaurin-treated patients. In a pooled analysis from 2 nonrandomized trials (n = 142), rash/maculopapular rash/erythema multiforme (14%; grade 3 or higher, 3%) and contusion (6%) were reported in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis who received midostaurin. Acute febrile neutrophilic dermatosis (Sweet syndrome) was reported in postmarketing surveillance of midostaurin.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      erythema multiforme
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperhidrosis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      maculopapular rash
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerosis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      acute febrile neutrophilic dermatosis
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    insomnia
    General Information
    Insomnia occurred in 12% of patients who received midostaurin (n = 229) compared with 8% of patients who received placebo (n = 226) in combination with daunorubicin and cytarabine for the treatment of newly diagnosed FLT3-mutated acute myelogenous leukemia in a phase III trial. In a pooled analysis from 2 nonrandomized trials (n = 142), insomnia was reported in 11% of patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis who received midostaurin.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    edema, peripheral edema
    General Information
    Eyelid edema was reported in 3% of patients who received midostaurin in combination with daunorubicin and cytarabine (n = 229) for the treatment of newly diagnosed FLT3-mutated acute myelogenous leukemia in a randomized, placebo-controlled, phase III trial. In a pooled analysis from 2 nonrandomized trials (n = 142), edema/peripheral edema occurred in 40% of patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis who received midostaurin; grade 3 or higher edema/peripheral edema was reported in 7% of patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      edema
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral edema
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    asthenia, fatigue
    General Information
    In a pooled analysis from 2 nonrandomized trials (n = 142), fatigue/asthenia occurred in 34% of patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis who received midostaurin; grade 3 or higher fatigue/asthenia was reported in 9% of patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    chills, fever
    General Information
    In a pooled analysis from 2 nonrandomized trials (n = 142), fever (27%; grade 3 or higher, 4%) and chills (5%) were reported in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis who received midostaurin.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      chills
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    QT prolongation
    General Information
    QT prolongation has been reported with midostaurin therapy in clinical trials. QT prolongation (20% vs. 17%; grade 3 or higher, 6% vs. 5%), QTcF greater than 480 milliseconds (ms) (10.1% vs. 5.7%), QTcF greater than 500 ms (6.2% vs. 2.6%), and increased QTcF greater than 60 ms from baseline (18.4% vs. 10.7%) were reported in more patients who received midostaurin (n = 229; n = 345 for grade 3 or higher adverse events) compared with patients who received placebo (n = 226; n = 335 for grade 3 or higher adverse events) in combination with daunorubicin and cytarabine for the treatment of newly diagnosed FLT3-mutated acute myelogenous leukemia in a phase 3 trial. In a pooled analysis from 2 nonrandomized trials (n = 142), QT prolongation occurred in 11% of patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis who received midostaurin; grade 3 or higher QT prolongation was reported in less than 1% of patients. In this analysis, 4.7% of patients had a post-baseline QTcF greater than 480 ms, no patients had a QTcF greater than 500 ms, and 6.3% patients had increased QTcF greater than 60 ms compared to baseline.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      QT prolongation
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    nephrotoxicity, renal failure (unspecified)
    General Information
    Nephrotoxicity including increased serum creatinine level has been reported with midostaurin therapy in clinical trials. Renal insufficiency occurred in 12% of patients who received midostaurin (n = 229; n = 345 for grade 3 or higher adverse events) compared with 9% of patients who received placebo (n = 226; n = 335 for grade 3 or higher adverse events) in combination with daunorubicin and cytarabine for the treatment of newly diagnosed FLT3-mutated acute myelogenous leukemia in a phase III trial; grade 3 or higher renal insufficiency occurred in 5% and 3% of patients, respectively. In a pooled analysis from 2 nonrandomized trials (n = 142), renal insufficiency (11%) and increased creatinine level (25%; grade 3 or higher, less than 1%) were reported in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis who received midostaurin; grade 3 or higher renal insufficiency occurred in 5% of patients. Renal insufficiency included increased blood creatinine level, renal failure (unspecified), and acute kidney injury.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      renal failure (unspecified)
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nephrotoxicity
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    angina, heart failure, hypertension, hypotension, myocardial infarction, pericardial effusion
    General Information
    Cardiac toxicity has been reported with midostaurin in clinical trials; some cases were fatal. Cardiac adverse events reported in patients with newly diagnosed FLT3-mutated acute myelogenous leukemia who received midostaurin combination with daunorubicin and cytarabine (n = 229; n = 345 for grade 3 or higher adverse events) included hypertension (8%) and pericardial effusion (4%) in a randomized, placebo-controlled, phase III trial. In a pooled analysis from 2 nonrandomized trials (n = 142), hypotension (9%), heart failure (6%), and myocardial infarction or ischemia/angina pectoris (4%) were reported in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis who received midostaurin.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      angina
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      heart failure
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      myocardial infarction
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pericardial effusion
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hyperglycemia
    General Information
    Hyperglycemia occurred in 20% of patients who received midostaurin (n = 229; n = 345 for grade 3 or higher adverse events) compared with 17% of patients who received placebo (n = 226; n = 335 for grade 3 or higher adverse events) in combination with daunorubicin and cytarabine for the treatment of newly diagnosed FLT3-mutated acute myelogenous leukemia in a phase III trial; grade 3 or higher hyperglycemia occurred in 7% and 6% of patients, respectively. In this trial, hyperglycemia (20% vs. 13%) was reported more frequently in patients in remission who received midostaurin (n = 120) compared with placebo (n = 85) following induction and consolidation therapy. In a pooled analysis from 2 nonrandomized trials (n = 142), non-fasting hyperglycemia was reported in 80% of patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis who received midostaurin; grade 3 or higher hyperglycemia occurred in 18% of patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperglycemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes, hyperbilirubinemia, hypoalbuminemia
    General Information
    Hepatotoxicity (e.g., elevated hepatic enzymes) has been reported with midostaurin therapy in clinical trials. Increased ALT level occurred in 71% of patients who received midostaurin (n = 345) compared with 69% of patients who received placebo (n = 335) in combination with daunorubicin and cytarabine for the treatment of newly diagnosed FLT3-mutated acute myelogenous leukemia in a phase III trial; grade 3 or 4 increased ALT level occurred in 20% and 16% of patients, respectively. In a pooled analysis from 2 nonrandomized trials (n = 142), increased alkaline phosphatase level (39%; grade 3 or higher, 9%), increased gamma-glutamyl transferase level (35%; grade 3 or higher, 9%), increased AST level (32%; grade 3 or higher, 3%), increased ALT level (31%; grade 3 or higher, 4%), hyperbilirubinemia (29%; grade 3 or higher, 4%), and hypoalbuminemia (27%; grade 3 or higher, 1%) were reported in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis who received midostaurin.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperbilirubinemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypoalbuminemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hyperamylasemia
    General Information
    In a pooled analysis from 2 nonrandomized trials (n = 142), increased lipase level (37%; grade 3 or higher, 18%) and hyperamylasemia (20%; grade 3 or higher, 7%) were reported in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis who received midostaurin.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperamylasemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hypercalcemia, hyperkalemia, hypernatremia, hyperuricemia, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, hyponatremia, hypophosphatemia
    General Information
    In a phase III trial, electrolyte abnormalities that occurred more often in patients with newly diagnosed FLT3-mutated acute myelogenous leukemia who received midostaurin (n = 345) compared with placebo (n = 335) in combination with daunorubicin and cytarabine included hypernatremia (21% vs. 15%) and hypocalcemia (74% vs. 70%); hyperuricemia (8%), hypercalcemia (3%), and grade 3 or 4 hypernatremia (1%) and hypocalcemia (7%) were reported in midostaurin-treated patients. In a pooled analysis from 2 nonrandomized trials (n = 142), hypocalcemia (39%; grade 3 or higher, 2%), hyperuricemia (37%; grade 3 or higher, 11%), hyponatremia (34%; grade 3 or higher, 5%), hypokalemia (25%; grade 3 or higher, 6%), hyperkalemia (23%; grade 3 or higher, 4%), hypophosphatemia (22%; grade 3 or higher, 1%), and hypomagnesemia (20%) were reported in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis who received midostaurin.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypercalcemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperkalemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypernatremia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperuricemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypocalcemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypokalemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypomagnesemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyponatremia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypophosphatemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    thrombosis
    General Information
    Thrombosis including device-related thrombosis occurred in 5% of patients who received midostaurin in combination with daunorubicin and cytarabine (n = 229; n = 345 for grade 3 or higher adverse events) for the treatment of newly diagnosed FLT3-mutated acute myelogenous leukemia in a phase III trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      thrombosis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    weight gain
    General Information
    Weight gain occurred in 7% of patients who received midostaurin in combination with daunorubicin and cytarabine (n = 229) for the treatment of newly diagnosed FLT3-mutated acute myelogenous leukemia in a phase III trial. In a pooled analysis from 2 nonrandomized trials (n = 142), weight gain was reported in 6% of patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis who received midostaurin.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      weight gain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    vertigo
    General Information
    In a pooled analysis from 2 nonrandomized trials (n = 142), vertigo was reported in 5% of patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis who received midostaurin.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      vertigo
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anaphylactic shock, angioedema, chest pain (unspecified), flushing
    General Information
    Hypersensitivity reactions including dyspnea, flushing, chest pain (unspecified), and angioedema (with or without respiratory impairment) have been reported with midostaurin therapy. In a pooled analysis from 2 nonrandomized trials (n = 142), hypersensitivity reactions including 1 report of anaphylactic shock occurred in 4% of patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis who received midostaurin.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactic shock
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      chest pain (unspecified)
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      flushing
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    infertility
    General Information
    Based on animal studies, midostaurin may cause female and male infertility. It is not known if infertility is reversible.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infertility
      Severity
      Moderate

Description
  Text
  Midostaurin is an oral tyrosine kinase inhibitor that inhibits mutant FLT3 (ITD and TKD) and D816V mutant KIT. Midostaurin is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with newly diagnosed, FLT3 mutation-positive acute myeloid leukemia (AML) in combination with standard cytarabine and daunorubicin induction and cytarabine consolidation. It is also indicated as single-agent therapy for the treatment of aggressive systemic mastocytosis, systemic mastocytosis with associated hematological neoplasm, and mast cell leukemia. Midostaurin is approved for use with a diagnostic test, the LeukoStrat CDx FLT3 Mutation Assay; this test is used to detect the FLT3 mutation in patients with AML. Fatal cases of interstitial lung disease and pneumonitis have been reported; patients should be monitored for signs and symptoms of pulmonary toxicity.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Midostaurin is a multiple receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor. In vitro, midostaurin and its metabolites, CGP62221 and CGP52421, inhibit the activity of wild-type FLT3, FLT3-mutant kinases (ITD and TKD), KIT (wild type and D816V mutant), platelet-derived growth-factor (PDGF) receptor, vascular endothelial growth-factor receptor-2 (VEGFR2), and members of the serine/threonine kinase protein kinase C family. FLT3 ligand binds to its receptor leading to activation of downstream signaling cascades which mediates differentiation and growth of leukemia cells. FLT3 mutations are present in about one-third of patients with acute myelogenous leukemia. Midostaurin induces apoptosis in leukemic cells expressing ITD- and TKD-mutant FLT3 receptors or overexpressing wild-type FLT3 and PDGF receptors. Systemic mastocytosis is a myeloid malignancy that is caused by the accumulation of abnormal mast cells. The KIT D816V mutation is present in approximately 90% of patients. Midostaurin also inhibits KIT signaling, cell proliferation, and histamine release and induces apoptosis in mast cells.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Steady-state Cmin (trough) values are achieved at approximately 28 days. Steady-state midostaurin, CGP62221, and CGP52421 Cmin values were similar following midostaurin 50 mg PO twice daily or 100 mg PO twice daily with food. In the fasted state, the midostaurin Tmax occurs at 1 to 3 hours post-dose.
Effects of Food: The midostaurin AUC values increased by 1.2-fold and 1.6-fold and the Cmax values decreased by 20% and 27% when midostaurin was administered with a standard meal (457 calories; 50 g fat; 21 g protein; and 18 g carbohydrates) and a high-fat meal (1,007 calories; 66 g fat; 32 g protein; and 64 g carbohydrates), respectively, compared with midostaurin administered in a fasted state. Additionally, the midostaurin median Tmax was delayed from 2.5 to 3 hours when midostaurin was administered with a standard or high-fat meal. Midostaurin should be administered with food.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Mild (total bilirubin level greater than 1- to 1.5-times the upper limit of normal (ULN) or AST level greater than the ULN) or moderate (total bilirubin level 1.5- to 3-times the ULN and any AST level) hepatic impairment did not have a clinically significant impact on the pharmacokinetic (PK) parameters of midostaurin or its metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421. The PK parameters of midostaurin have not been evaluated in patients with severe hepatic impairment (total bilirubin level greater than 3- times the ULN and any AST level).
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Creatinine clearance (CrCl) values of 30 mL/min or greater did not have a clinically significant impact on the pharmacokinetic (PK) parameters of midostaurin or its metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421. The PK parameters of midostaurin have not been evaluated in patients with severe renal impairment (CrCl of 15 to 29 mL/min).
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Age (range, 20 to 94 years) did not have a clinically significant impact on the pharmacokinetic parameters of midostaurin or its metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    Gender did not have a clinically significant impact on the pharmacokinetic parameters of midostaurin or its metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    Race did not have a clinically significant impact on the pharmacokinetic parameters of midostaurin or its metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421.
  Text
  Midostaurin is administered orally. In vitro, midostaurin and its metabolites are highly bound to plasma proteins (99.8%), primarily alpha 1-acid glycoprotein. It has an estimated geometric mean volume of distribution of 95.2 L (coefficient of variation (CV), 31%). Midostaurin if metabolized in the liver, primarily by CYP3A4; metabolites CGP62221, and CGP52421 accounted for 28% (+/- 2.7%) and 38 % (+/- 6.6%) of the total circulating radioactively following radiolabeled midostaurin administration. The geometric mean terminal half-life values were 19 hours (CV, 39%), 32 hours (CV, 31%), and 482 hours (CV, 25%) for midostaurin, CGP62221, and CGP52421, respectively. Fecal excretion accounts for 95% of the recovered dose, with 91% of the dose excreted as metabolites and 4% of the dose as unchanged parent drug; 5% of the recovered dose was excreted in the urine.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes: CYP3A4, CYP2B6, BCRP, OATP1B1
Midostaurin is a CYP3A4 substrate, a weak CYP2B6 inducer, a breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) inhibitor, and an organic anion transporter polypeptide (OATP)-1BA inhibitor based on a drug interaction studies. Coadministration of midostaurin with midazolam (a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate), pioglitazone (a moderately sensitive CYP2C8 substrate), dextromethorphan (a sensitive CYP2D6 substrate), or digoxin (a sensitive P-glycoprotein substrate) did not affect the substrate AUC values in drug interaction studies. In vitro, midostaurin and/or its metabolites inhibit CYP1A2 and CYP2E1 and induce CYP1A2.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
Emetic Risk
Moderate/High
Administer routine antiemetic prophylaxis prior to treatment.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Take midostaurin twice daily with food; separate doses by approximately 12 hours.
Swallow whole; do not open or crush capsules.
If a dose is missed or vomited, skip the dose and take the next dose at the usual scheduled time.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    100 mg PO twice daily.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    100 mg PO twice daily.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy not established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy not established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy not established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
