=== ARIPiprazole — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 2729)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Aripiprazole is an atypical antipsychotic in a class known as dopamine system stabilizers (DSSs).

Routes: oral, injection (IV/IM/SC); Common adult doses: 30 mg/day PO tablets and oral film, and 25 mg/day PO oral solution; 400 mg/month extended-release IM (Abilify Maintena); 960 mg every 2 months extended-release IM (Abilify Asimtufii); 882 mg/month extended-release IM (Aristada); 675 mg IM single-dose...

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): confusion, drowsiness, impaired cognition, psychomotor impairment, agitation, anxiety, irritability, memory impairment, myoclonia, akathisia, akinesia, choreoathetosis, dystonic reaction, hypertonia, hypotonia, pseudoparkinsonism, restlessness, tremor, complex sleep-related behaviors, delirium, depression, impulse control symptoms, libido decrease, libido increase, somnambulism, suicidal ideation, hypotension, orthostatic hypotension, syncope, dental pain

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Closely monitor for new or worsening uncontrollable urges in patients at higher risk for impulse-control problems (e.g., patients with obsessive-compulsive disorder or a family history...

ARIPIPRAZOLE

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Abilify, Abilify Asimtufii, Abilify Discmelt, Abilify Maintena, Abilify Mycite, Aristada, Opipza

Indication Specific Dosing

General Dosing Information
Converting from aripiprazole tablets to oral solution
The oral aripiprazole solution can be substituted for tablets on a mg-per-mg basis up to 25 mg. Individuals receiving 30 mg tablets should receive 25 mg of the solution.
Converting from once-monthly intramuscular aripiprazole (Abilify Maintena) to every 2 months intramuscular aripiprazole (Abilify Asimtufii)
Administer Abilify Asimtufii in place of the next scheduled injection of Abilify Maintena. The first Abilify Asimtufii injection may be administered in place of the second, or later injection of Abilify Maintena.
Converting from Abilify Maintena to Aristada
Abilify Maintena and Aristada contain different formulations of aripiprazole and are not interchangeable. Conversion between these extended-release formulations must be done carefully to ensure the proper amount of aripiprazole is provided based on the formulation selected. Aristada (aripiprazole lauroxil) doses of 441 mg, 662 mg, 882 mg, and 1,064 mg correspond to doses of 300 mg, 450 mg, 600 mg, and 724 mg, respectively, of aripiprazole. As such, there is not an exact equivalent dose to transition from one long-acting aripiprazole injectable formulation to another. Doses of oral aripiprazole that were determined to stabilize the individual may be used to help guide conversions.
Switching from other antipsychotics
There is no systematically collected data to specifically address switching individuals from other antipsychotics to aripiprazole, or concerning concomitant administration with other antipsychotics.
While immediate discontinuation of the previous antipsychotic treatment may be acceptable for some individuals, more gradual discontinuation may be most appropriate for others.
Minimize the period of overlapping antipsychotic administration.


For the treatment of schizophrenia

For the oral treatment of schizophrenia
Oral dosage (tablets, dissolving film, disintegrating tablets, and tablets with sensor)
Adults


10 to 15 mg PO once daily, initially. May increase the dose every 2 weeks based on clinical response and tolerability. Max: 30 mg/day. However, doses higher than 10 or 15 mg/day were not more effective than 10 or 15 mg/day. CYP2D6 poor metabolizers: Administer half of the recommended dose. Periodically assess the need for continued treatment; use the lowest effective dose. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. 


Adolescents


2 mg PO once daily for 2 days, then 5 mg PO once daily for 2 days, then 10 mg PO once daily, initially. May further increase the dose by 5 mg/day based on clinical response and tolerability. Max: 30 mg/day. However, the 30 mg/day dose was not shown to be more effective than the 10 mg/day dose. CYP2D6 poor metabolizers: Administer half of the recommended dose. Periodically assess the need for continued treatment; use the lowest effective dose. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. One oral film dosage form does not come in a 2 mg dosage strength for initiation of dosing; use another product for initial doses in these patients.


Oral dosage (solution)
Adults


10 to 15 mg PO once daily, initially. May increase the dose every 2 weeks based on clinical response and tolerability. Max: 25 mg/day. However, doses higher than 10 or 15 mg/day were not more effective than 10 or 15 mg/day. CYP2D6 poor metabolizers: Administer half of the recommended dose. Periodically assess the need for continued treatment; use the lowest effective dose. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


Adolescents


2 mg PO once daily for 2 days, then 5 mg PO once daily for 2 days, then 10 mg PO once daily, initially. May further increase the dose by 5 mg/day based on clinical response and tolerability. Max: 25 mg/day. However, the higher dose was not shown to be more effective than the 10 mg/day dose. Periodically assess the need for continued treatment; use the lowest effective dose. Periodically assess the need for continued treatment; use the lowest effective dose. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


For the treatment of schizophrenia using long-acting aripiprazole lauroxil injection (i.e., Aristada and Aristada Initio)
Intramuscular dosage (extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injectable suspension; i.e., Aristada)
Adults 18 to 65 years


Suggested dosage conversions from oral therapy: 441 mg IM once monthly for 10 mg/day PO. 662 mg IM once monthly, 882 mg IM every 6 weeks, or 1,064 mg IM every 2 months for 15 mg/day PO; and 882 mg IM once monthly for 20 mg/day or more PO. Continue the current oral aripiprazole dosage for 21 days to maintain therapeutic concentrations during initiation of therapy. Only the 441 mg dose may be given in the deltoid or gluteal muscle, all others are gluteal only. Periodically assess the need for continued treatment; use the lowest effective dose. Coadministration of certain medications may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. 


Intramuscular dosage (extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injection for single-dose use [i.e., Aristada Initio], used with Aristada injection for initiation regimen)
Adults 18 to 65 years


675 IM (deltoid or gluteal muscle) as a single dose in conjunction with a single dose of 30 mg PO aripiprazole and the first Aristada dose on the same day or within 10 days. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


Oral dosage (tablets, when used with Aristada Initio and Aristada for initiation regimen)
Adults 18 to 65 years


30 mg PO as a single dose in conjunction with Aristada Initio and the first Aristada injection. Coadministration of certain medications may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


For the treatment of schizophrenia with a monthly long-acting injectable formulation (i.e., Abilify Maintena)
Intramuscular dosage (1-day initiation regimen with monthly extended-release injectable suspension; i.e., Abilify Maintena)
Adults


Give two 400 mg IM injections into 2 different injection sites (deltoid or gluteal muscle) for a total dose of 800 mg IM. Administer with 1 dose of aripiprazole 20 mg PO on the first day of treatment. After this initiation regimen, follow with IM maintenance dosing.


Intramuscular dosage (14-day initiation regimen with a monthly extended-release formulation injectable suspension; i.e., Abilify Maintena)
Adults


400 mg IM (deltoid or gluteal muscle) as a single dose, and have patient take oral aripiprazole (10 to 20 mg) PO for 14 days. For patients currently stable on a different oral antipsychotic (and known to tolerate aripiprazole), give 400 mg IM single dose and continue treatment with the oral antipsychotic for 14 days. After this initiation regimen, follow with IM maintenance dosing.


Intramuscular dosage (maintenance dosage with a monthly extended-release formulation injectable suspension; i.e., Abilify Maintena)
Adults


400 mg IM (deltoid or gluteal muscle) once monthly, no sooner than 26 days after the previous injection. May reduce dose to 300 mg IM once monthly if adverse reactions occur. Periodically assess the need for continued treatment; use the lowest effective dose. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


For the maintenance treatment of schizophrenia with an every 2-month long-acting injectable formulation (i.e., Abilify Asimtufii)
Intramuscular dosage (14-day initiation regimen with every 2 month extended-release injectable suspension; i.e., Abilify Asimtufii)
Adults


960 mg IM (gluteal muscle) as a single dose, and have patient take oral aripiprazole (10 to 20 mg) PO for 14 days. For patients currently stable on another oral antipsychotic (and known to tolerate aripiprazole), administer a single dose of 960 mg IM and continue treatment with the oral antipsychotic for 14 consecutive days. Then, start maintenance treatment with Abilify Asimtufi in 2 months.


Intramuscular dosage (maintenance dosage with every 2 month extended-release injectable suspension; i.e., Abilify Asimtufii)
Adults


960 mg IM (gluteal muscle) every 2 months (56 days after the previous injection; may administer up to 2 weeks before or after the 2-month scheduled time point). May reduce dose to 720 mg IM every 2 months for adverse reactions. Coadministration of certain medications may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


For the treatment of schizophrenia with a 1-day initiation using a combination of long-acting injectable formulations (i.e., Abilify Asimtufii with Abilify Maintena)
Intramuscular dosage (1-day initiation regimen with a combination of extended-release injections; i.e., Abilify Asimtufii with Abilify Maintena)
Adults


Abilify Asimtufii 960 mg IM (gluteal muscle) with Abilify Maintena 400 mg IM (separate gluteal or deltoid muscle). Administer with 1 dose of aripiprazole 20 mg PO on the first day of treatment. Then, start maintenance treatment with Abilify Asimtufi in 2 months.


For the treatment of bipolar disorder (bipolar I disorder), including acute treatment of mania and mixed episodes

For the acute treatment of mania and mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder
Oral dosage (tablets and disintegrating tablets)
Adults


10 to 15 mg PO once daily, initially. May increase the dose based on clinical response and tolerability. Target dose: 15 mg/day. Max dose: 30 mg/day. CYP2D6 poor metabolizers: Administer half of the recommended dose. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


Children and Adolescents 10 to 17 years


2 mg PO once daily for 2 days, then 5 mg PO once daily for 2 days, then 10 mg PO once daily. May further increase the dose by 5 mg/day based on clinical response and tolerability. Target dose: 10 mg/day. Max: 30 mg/day. CYP2D6 poor metabolizers: Administer half of the recommended dose. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


Oral dosage (solution)
Adults


10 to 15 mg PO once daily, initially. May increase the dose based on clinical response and tolerability. Target dose: 15 mg/day. Max dose: 25 mg/day. CYP2D6 poor metabolizers: Administer half of the recommended dose. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


Children and Adolescents 10 to 17 years



2 mg PO once daily for 2 days, then 5 mg PO once daily for 2 days, then 10 mg PO once daily. May further increase the dose by 5 mg/day based on clinical response and tolerability. Target dose: 10 mg/day. Max: 25 mg/day. CYP2D6 poor metabolizers: Administer half of the recommended dose. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


Oral dosage (tablet with sensor; e.g., Abilify Mycite)
Adults


10 to 15 mg PO once daily, initially. May increase the dose based on clinical response and tolerability. Target dose: 15 mg/day. Max dose: 30 mg/day. CYP2D6 poor metabolizers: Administer half of the recommended dose. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


For the oral maintenance treatment of bipolar I disorder
Oral dosage (tablet with sensor; e.g., Abilify Mycite)
Adults


10 to 15 mg PO once daily, initially. May increase the dose based on clinical response and tolerability. Target dose: 15 mg/day. Max dose: 30 mg/day. CYP2D6 poor metabolizers: Administer half of the recommended dose. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


For the maintenance treatment of bipolar I disorder with a monthly long-acting injectable formulation (i.e., Abilify Maintena)
Intramuscular dosage (1-day initiation regimen with monthly extended-release formulation; i.e., Abilify Maintena)
Adults


Give two 400 mg IM injections at 2 different injection sites (deltoid or gluteal muscle) for a total dose of 800 mg IM. Administer with 1 dose of aripiprazole 20 mg PO on the first day of treatment. After this initiation regimen, follow with IM maintenance dosing.


Intramuscular dosage (14-day initiation regimen with monthly extended-release formulation; i.e., Abilify Maintena)
Adults


400 mg IM (deltoid or gluteal muscle) as a single dose, and have patient take oral aripiprazole (10 to 20 mg) PO for 14 days. For patients currently stable on a different oral antipsychotic (and known to tolerate aripiprazole), give 400 mg IM single dose and continue treatment with the oral antipsychotic for 14 days. After this initiation regimen, follow with IM maintenance dosing.


Intramuscular dosage (maintenance dosage with monthly extended-release injectable suspension; i.e., Abilify Maintena)
Adults


400 mg IM (deltoid or gluteal muscle) once monthly, no sooner than 26 days after the previous injection. May reduce dose to 300 mg IM once monthly if adverse reactions occur. Periodically assess the need for continued treatment; use the lowest effective dose. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


For the maintenance treatment of bipolar I disorder with a 1-day initiation using a combination of long-acting injectable formulations (i.e., Abilify Asimtufii with Abilify Maintena)
Intramuscular dosage (1-day initiation regimen with a combination of extended-release injectable suspensions; i.e., Abilify Asimtufii with Abilify Maintena)
Adults


Abilify Asimtufii 960 mg IM (gluteal muscle) with Abilify Maintena 400 mg IM (separate gluteal or deltoid muscle). Administer with 1 dose of aripiprazole 20 mg PO on the first day of treatment. Then, start maintenance dosage with Abilify Asimtufi in 2 months.


For the maintenance treatment of bipolar I disorder with an every 2-month long-acting injectable formulation (i.e., Abilify Asimtufii)
Intramuscular dosage (14-day initiation with every 2 month extended-release injectable suspension; i.e., Abilify Asimtufii)
Adults


960 mg IM (gluteal muscle) as a single dose, and have patient take oral aripiprazole (10 to 20 mg) PO for 14 days. For patients currently stable on another oral antipsychotic (and known to tolerate aripiprazole), administer a single dose of 960 mg IM and continue treatment with the oral antipsychotic for 14 consecutive days. Then, start maintenance treatment with Abilify Asimtufi in 2 months.


Intramuscular dosage (maintenance dosage with every 2 month extended-release injectable suspension; i.e., Abilify Asimtufii)
Adults


960 mg IM (gluteal muscle) every 2 months (56 days after the previous injection; may administer up to 2 weeks before or after the 2-month scheduled time point). May reduce dose to 720 mg IM every 2 months for adverse reactions. Coadministration of certain medications may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


For the adjunctive treatment of major depression

Oral dosage
Adults


Initially, 2 to 5 mg PO once daily as an adjunct to previously established antidepressant treatment. Adjust in increments of up to 5 mg at intervals of no less than 1 week. The effective dose range is 2 to 15 mg/day. Periodically reassess to determine the need for continued treatment. The use of Abilify Mycite (aripiprazole tablets with sensor) to track drug ingestion in "real-time" or during an emergent event is not recommended because detection may be delayed or not occur. NOTE: No dosage adjustments are needed in patients with major depressive disorder receiving adjunct aripiprazole within this dose range with concomitant CYP modulators or for CYP2D6 poor metabolizers.


For the treatment of irritability associated with autistic disorder

Oral dosage
Children and Adolescents 6 to 17 years


2 mg PO once daily for 1 week, then increase the dose to 5 mg PO once daily. May further increase the dose by 5 mg/day every week or more. Usual dose: 5 to 15 mg/day. CYP2D6 poor metabolizers: Administer half of the recommended dose. Periodically reassess the need for continued treatment. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.


For the treatment of Tourette syndrome or chronic tic disorders†

Oral dosage
Children and Adolescents 6 years and older


WEIGHT AT LEAST 50 KG: Initially, 2 mg PO once daily. After 2 days, increase to 5 mg PO once daily. After 5 additional days, increase to the target dose of 10 mg PO once daily. Increase gradually by 5 mg/day increments at weekly intervals as needed to achieve optimal control. Max: 20 mg/day. WEIGHT LESS THAN 50 KG: Initially, 2 mg PO once daily. After 2 days, increase dose to 5 mg PO once daily. Increase gradually at weekly intervals as needed. Max: 10 mg/day PO. CYP2D6 poor metabolizers: Administer half of the recommended dose. In all patients, periodically reassess the need for continued treatment. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided, or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. The American Academy of Neurology states that aripiprazole is probably more likely than placebo to reduce tic severity in individuals with Tourette syndrome or chronic tic disorders; however, there is insufficient evidence to determine the efficacy of aripiprazole relative to other antipsychotics used to treat tics.


For the treatment of severe behavioral or psychological symptoms of dementia† (BPSD)†

Oral dosage
Geriatric Adults


2 or 2.5 mg PO once daily initially, with gradual titration, with a target dose of 5 mg PO once daily at the end of 2 weeks. May further titrate by 5 mg every 2 weeks if clinically indicated. Maximum suggested dose: 15 mg/day. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. Reviews, guidelines, and algorithms have suggested aripiprazole may be considered for behavioral symptoms of dementia and for agitation in these patients.  


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

family history of obsessive-compulsive disorder, impulse control disorder, obsessive-compulsive disorder, substance abuse disorder


Closely monitor for new or worsening uncontrollable urges in patients at higher risk for impulse-control problems (e.g., patients with obsessive-compulsive disorder or a family history of obsessive-compulsive disorder, impulse control disorder, bipolar disorder, impulsive personality, substance abuse disorder, or other addictive behaviors). Postmarketing reports suggest that patients taking aripiprazole can experience intense compulsive urges, particularly for gambling, and the inability to control these urges. Less frequently reported impulse control symptoms include eating or binge-eating, shopping, and sexual actions. In some cases, these uncontrollable urges stop when the medication is discontinued or the dose is reduced. Inform patients and caregivers of the risk of impulse control symptoms. Because patients may not recognize these behavioral changes as abnormal, health care providers should specifically ask patients about any new or increasing urges or compulsions during aripiprazole treatment. Impulse control symptoms can also be associated with the underlying disorder that is being treated. Consider a reduction in dose or discontinuation of the medication if such urges develop during use of aripiprazole, as they may result in harm to the patient or others.


diabetes mellitus, obesity


Aripiprazole, like other atypical antipsychotic agents, may cause metabolic changes. Metabolic changes are of particular concern in patients with pre-existing risk factors, such as diabetes mellitus and/or obesity. Increased blood sugar, worsening or new-onset diabetes, dyslipidemia, and weight gain may occur during therapy. While all medications in the atypical antipsychotic class have been shown to produce some metabolic changes, each drug has its own specific risk profile. Metabolic changes may increase cardiovascular or cerebrovascular risk over time. Hyperglycemia, sometimes associated with diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar coma, or death, has been reported in people treated with atypical antipsychotics. Monitor weight and for symptoms of hyperglycemia. Regularly monitor patients with established diabetes mellitus for changes in weight and worsening of glucose control during atypical antipsychotic treatment. In those with risk factors for diabetes mellitus (e.g., obesity, family history of diabetes), perform fasting blood glucose testing at the beginning of treatment. In patients who develop symptoms of hyperglycemia during treatment, order fasting blood glucose testing. In some cases, hyperglycemia has resolved when the antipsychotic is discontinued. However, some patients require continuation of antidiabetic agents despite discontinuation of the suspect drug. When treating pediatric patients, weight gain should be assessed against the expected normal growth rate.
42845



hyperlipidemia


Aripiprazole, like other atypical antipsychotic agents, may cause metabolic changes. Metabolic changes are of particular concern in those with pre-existing risk factors, such as hyperlipidemia (e.g., hypercholesterolemia or hypertriglyceridemia). While all medications in the atypical antipsychotic class have been shown to produce some metabolic changes, each drug has its own specific risk profile. Dyslipidemia (increased cholesterol and/or triglycerides) may occur during therapy. Metabolic changes may increase cardiovascular or cerebrovascular risk over time. Clinical monitoring of serum lipid profiles is recommended during aripiprazole treatment. Inform all patients of the importance of physical activity and maintaining a nutritionally balanced diet during treatment.


adolescents, children, suicidal ideation


Safety and efficacy of oral aripiprazole has been demonstrated in pediatric patients 6 years or older for selected indications. Because oral aripiprazole is approved for the adjunct treatment of major depression in adults, a boxed warning in the product label describes the risk of suicidality and suicidal ideation in children, adolescents, and young adults receiving antidepressants. In a pooled analysis of placebo-controlled trials of antidepressants (n = 4,500 pediatrics and 77,000 adults), there was an increased risk for suicidal thoughts and behaviors in adults and pediatric individuals 24 years and younger receiving an antidepressant versus placebo, with considerable variation in the risk of suicidality among drugs. The difference in absolute risk of suicidal thoughts and behaviors across different indications was highest in those with major depression. Weigh the need for an antidepressant in children, adolescents, or young adults against the risk of suicidality; it is unknown if this risk extends to adjunctive treatment or long-term use. Monitor all patients for worsening of symptoms or suicidality, especially at treatment initiation or after dose changes. Caregivers and/or patients should immediately notify the prescriber of changes in behavior or suicidal ideation. A change to the treatment regimen or discontinuation of aripiprazole may be necessary in patients with emerging suicidality or worsening depression. The Key Potentially Inappropriate Drugs in Pediatrics (KIDs) list includes aripiprazole as a potentially inappropriate medication for use in children and adolescents and use should be avoided. If avoidance is not possible, use aripiprazole with caution and appropriate monitoring.


cardiovascular disease, hypovolemia


Aripiprazole should be used with caution in patients with known cardiovascular disease (e.g., history of myocardial infarction or ischemic heart disease, heart failure or conduction abnormalities) or conditions which would predispose patients to hypotension (dehydration, hypovolemia, and treatment with antihypertensive medications). Aripiprazole can cause orthostatic hypotension and, in rare cases, syncope; risks may be increased in patients with underlying risk factors. Orthostatic hypotension from antipsychotic use may lead to falls with the potential for fractures and other injuries; a fall risk assessment should be completed and reassessed as needed in patients with conditions, diseases, or concurrent medication use that could exacerbate orthostasis.


bradycardia, cardiomyopathy, congenital long QT syndrome, coronary artery disease, females, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, QT prolongation


Use aripiprazole with caution in people with baseline QT prolongation or who have conditions that may increase the risk of QT prolongation or torsade de pointes, including bradycardia, congenital long QT syndrome, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, geriatric adults, females, structural abnormalities that interfere with electrical conduction (e.g., cardiomyopathy, coronary artery disease, ischemic heart disease), or in those who have other additional risk factors for QT prolongation or torsade de pointes. The use of other medications that have been associated with QT prolongation or torsade de pointes may further increase risk.


activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery


Antipsychotics, including aripiprazole, may cause somnolence, postural hypotension, motor and sensory instability, which may lead to falls and, consequently, fractures or other injuries. For people with diseases, conditions, or medications that could exacerbate these effects, complete fall risk assessments when initiating antipsychotic treatment and periodically during long-term antipsychotic therapy. Aripiprazole may have the potential to impair judgment, thinking, or motor skills; advise patients about driving or operating machinery or other activities requiring coordination and concentration until they are reasonably certain that aripiprazole does not affect them adversely. Given the primary CNS effects of aripiprazole, use caution during coadministration with other CNS depressants and alcohol. Ethanol ingestion may further impair cognitive and motor skills and patients should be advised to avoid use of alcoholic beverages when taking aripiprazole.


leukopenia


Use aripiprazole with caution in those with a history of leukopenia. Hematologic effects including leukopenia, neutropenia, and agranulocytosis have been associated with antipsychotic use. A history of drug-induced leukopenia or neutropenia or pre-existing low white blood cell (WBC) count may increase the likelihood of recurrence during treatment with an antipsychotic medication. Patients with a history of clinically significant low WBC count or drug-induced leukopenia/neutropenia should have frequent complete blood count (CBC) assessments during the first few months of treatment. Consider discontinuation of the antipsychotic if a clinically significant decline in WBC occurs in the absence of an identifiable cause. Monitor patients with clinically significant neutropenia closely for fever and infection; institute appropriate medical intervention if necessary. Aripiprazole should be discontinued in patients with severe neutropenia (absolute neutrophil count less than 1,000/mm3), with ongoing medical care until the symptoms resolve.


seizures


As with other antipsychotic drugs, aripiprazole should be used with caution in patients with a history of seizures, a seizure disorder, or with conditions that may lower the seizure threshold. Conditions that lower the seizure threshold may be more prevalent in a population of 65 years or older.


conditions contributing to an elevated core body temperature


Disruption of the body's ability to reduce core body temperature has been attributed to antipsychotic agents. Patients receiving aripiprazole should be advised of conditions contributing to an elevated core body temperature (e.g., exercising strenuously, exposure to extreme heat, receiving concomitant medication with anticholinergic activity, or being subject to dehydration).


Parkinson disease


Avoid use of aripiprazole in people with Parkinson disease unless the benefit clearly outweighs the risk of worsening of motor symptoms. Atypical antipsychotics can worsen the motor symptoms of Parkinson disease and can also lead to the development of extrapyramidal symptoms.


CYP2D6 poor metabolizer


Aristada Initio (single dose extended-release intramuscular injection) should be avoided in known CYP2D6 poor metabolizers (CYP2D6 PMs). Dosage adjustments are recommended in known CYP2D6 PMs for all other formulations of aripiprazole (e.g., Abilify, Abilify Mycite, Abilify Maintena, Abilify Asimtufii, Aristada, Opipza) due to the expected increases in aripiprazole exposure. Approximately 8% of Caucasian patients and 3% to 8% of Black/African American patients cannot metabolize CYP2D6 substrates and are classified as CYP2D6 PMs.


dementia with psychotic disturbance, geriatric


Antipsychotics, including aripiprazole, pose a risk of increased mortality when used for dementia with psychotic disturbance in geriatric adults. Most of the deaths are cardiovascular (e.g., heart failure, sudden death) or infectious (e.g., pneumonia) in nature. A higher incidence of stroke and transient ischemic attack, including fatal stroke, has also been reported. Initiate aripiprazole at the lower end of the dosage range and titrate carefully in the older adult. The safety and efficacy of aripiprazole lauroxil injections has not been established in adults 65 years of age or older for any indication. The Beers Criteria label antipsychotics as potentially inappropriate medications for geriatric adults, except for specific indications like agitation in Alzheimer disease, schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, major depressive disorder adjunct therapy, Parkinson disease psychosis, or short-term use as part of an antiemetic regimen during chemotherapy. Avoid use in delirium, dementia, or non-psychotic Parkinson disease. Reserve antipsychotic use for when non-pharmacologic strategies have failed, are not possible, or the patient poses a danger to self or others. Due to the potential for hyponatremia and SIADH, monitor sodium levels. The U.S. Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act (OBRA) regulates antipsychotic use in long-term care facilities and requires documented clinical justification. Taper antipsychotics unless clinically contraindicated, following guidelines for indications, dosages, and duration. OBRA limits "as needed" use to 14 days in long-term care facilities, with ongoing use requiring evaluation by the prescriber.


dysphagia, increased risk for aspiration


People with dysphagia or who are at an increased risk for aspiration should be closely monitored while receiving aripiprazole. Antipsychotic use, including aripiprazole, has been associated with esophageal dysmotility and aspiration of gastric contents. Aspiration pneumonia is a common cause of morbidity and mortality in older adults, in particular those with advanced Alzheimer disease.


phenylketonuria


Aripiprazole orally disintegrating tablets (i.e., Abilify Discmelt) should be used cautiously in patients with phenylketonuria, as the tablets contain aspartame, a source of phenylalanine. Each 10 mg orally disintegrating tablet contains 1.12 mg of phenylalanine and each 15 mg orally disintegrating tablet contains 1.68 mg of phenylalanine.


magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)


Patients should be instructed to remove the Mycite topical patch, which is used with the aripiprazole tablet with sensor (Abilify Mycite tablet), before undergoing magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and replace with a new patch as directed as soon as possible after the MRI. Metal components contained in the backing of some patch systems can overheat during an MRI scan and cause skin burns in the area where the patch is adhered. If there is skin irritation that occurs with the patch at anytime, instruct patients to remove the patch and notify their healthcare prescriber.


pregnancy


Aripiprazole is recommended for use during pregnancy only when the benefits outweigh the potential risks to the fetus. Overall available data from published epidemiologic studies of pregnancies exposed to aripiprazole have not established a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse maternal outcomes. There are maternal risks associated with untreated schizophrenia, bipolar I disorder, or major depressive disorder, and with exposure to antipsychotics, including aripiprazole, during pregnancy. Animal reproduction studies with aripiprazole have shown evidence of developmental toxicity, including possible teratogenicity, and an increase in stillbirths. It is not known if antipsychotics, through their effect on prolactin, would affect labor or obstetric delivery. Data in human pregnancy with aripiprazole suggest that the risk of major malformations after first trimester exposure to aripiprazole is not significant compared to controls; the data are limited by relatively small numbers of exposed pregnancies studied. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that continues to monitor outcomes in pregnant individuals exposed to aripiprazole and other atypical antipsychotics; information about the registry can be obtained at https://womensmentalhealth.org/research/pregnancyregistry/ or by calling 1-866-961-2388.


people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk


Consider pregnancy testing in people who may become pregnant prior to initiation of an antipsychotic, as there are limited controlled data regarding use of these agents during gestation. Ideally, health care providers should use pre-conceptual planning to help such individuals taking atypical antipsychotics balance the risk for illness relapse with the potential reproductive risk of continuing medication while pregnant.


breast-feeding


Use aripiprazole with caution during breast-feeding. Aripiprazole is present in human breast milk. Based on published case reports and pharmacovigilance reports, aripiprazole during pregnancy and/or the postpartum period can lead to variable effects on milk supply in the postpartum period, including clinically relevant decreases in milk supply which may be reversible with drug discontinuation. There are also reports of aripiprazole exposure during pregnancy and no maternal milk supply in the postpartum period. Effects on milk supply are likely mediated through a reduction in prolactin levels, which have been observed. Monitor breastfed infants for dehydration and lack of appropriate weight gain. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the risk of potential infant exposure, and the risk of an untreated or inadequately treated maternal condition.  Milk to plasma ratios of approximately 0.18 to 0.2 have been estimated. However, there is a variation of about 11-fold in the relative infant dose (0.7% to 8.3%). Aripiprazole can accumulate in an infant due to the long elimination half-life of the drug (approximately 75 hours) and the immature hepatic and renal functions of the developing infant, particularly if preterm or newborn. Data related to the safety of antipsychotics during breast-feeding are limited. It may be prudent to continue an existing antipsychotic regimen if ongoing treatment is deemed necessary during breast-feeding, since there is considerable individual variation in antipsychotic response. Alternate medications for consideration include olanzapine or quetiapine. Regardless of the antipsychotic used, closely monitor the breastfed infant for excessive drowsiness, lethargy, developmental delays, and other side effects. Combination treatment with antipsychotics may increase the risk of these adverse events.


neonates and infants exposed to this medication in utero


Neonates and infants exposed to this medication in utero during the third trimester of pregnancy are at risk for extrapyramidal and/or withdrawal symptoms following delivery. There have been reports of agitation, hypertonia, hypotonia, tremor, somnolence, respiratory distress and feeding disorders in these neonates. These complications have varied in severity and have ranged from self-limited to those requiring intensive care unit support and prolonged hospitalization. Neonates exhibiting signs or symptoms of extrapyramidal effects or withdrawal should be carefully monitored. The knowledge about long-term neurobehavioral effects in offspring is limited for all antipsychotic agents and requires further investigation.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Aripiprazole is recommended for use during pregnancy only when the benefits outweigh the potential risks to the fetus. Overall available data from published epidemiologic studies of pregnancies exposed to aripiprazole have not established a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse maternal outcomes. There are maternal risks associated with untreated schizophrenia, bipolar I disorder, or major depressive disorder, and with exposure to antipsychotics, including aripiprazole, during pregnancy. Animal reproduction studies with aripiprazole have shown evidence of developmental toxicity, including possible teratogenicity, and an increase in stillbirths. It is not known if antipsychotics, through their effect on prolactin, would affect labor or obstetric delivery. Data in human pregnancy with aripiprazole suggest that the risk of major malformations after first trimester exposure to aripiprazole is not significant compared to controls; the data are limited by relatively small numbers of exposed pregnancies studied. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that continues to monitor outcomes in pregnant individuals exposed to aripiprazole and other atypical antipsychotics; information about the registry can be obtained at https://womensmentalhealth.org/research/pregnancyregistry/ or by calling 1-866-961-2388.


Interactions

Abiraterone: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of abiraterone. Patients receiving both a CYP3A inhibitor plus abiraterone may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form and CYP3A inhibitor strength. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; abiraterone is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Acarbose: (Moderate) Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus and cause metabolic changes such as hyperglycemia. Monitor patients on antidiabetic agents for worsening glycemic control. The atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Aggravation of diabetes mellitus has been reported. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Acebutolol: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. It may be advisable to monitor blood pressure when these medications are coadministered.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of diphenhydramine. Patients receiving both a CYP3A inhibitor plus diphenhydramine may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form and CYP3A inhibitor strength. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; diphenhydramine is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with aripiprazole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking aripiprazole. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with aripiprazole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Due to the primary CNS effects of aripiprazole, caution should be used when aripiprazole is given in combination with other centrally-acting medications including sedating H1-blockers. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may occur.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with aripiprazole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking aripiprazole. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with aripiprazole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of doxylamine and aripiprazole due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Acetaminophen; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of diphenhydramine. Patients receiving both a CYP3A inhibitor plus diphenhydramine may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form and CYP3A inhibitor strength. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; diphenhydramine is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with aripiprazole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking aripiprazole Limit the use of opioid pain medications with aripiprazole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with aripiprazole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with aripiprazole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Acetaminophen; Pamabrom; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Due to the primary CNS effects of aripiprazole, caution should be used when aripiprazole is given in combination with other centrally-acting medications including sedating H1-blockers. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may occur.
Adagrasib: (Major) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and adagrasib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and increases aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Additionally, an aripiprazole dosage reduction is required; management recommendations vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer a quarter of the usual dose. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 200 mg/month or from 300 mg to 160 mg/month. For extended-release aripiprazole injections given once every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), reduce the dosage from 960 mg to 720 mg; avoid use in patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Aripiprazole is CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate, adagrasib is a moderate CYP2D6 and strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. (Major) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and adagrasib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and increases aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Additionally, an aripiprazole dosage reduction is required; management recommendations vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), reduce the dose to the next lowest strength; no dosage adjustment is required for patients tolerating 441 mg. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada) in patients who are known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6, reduce the dose to 441 mg; no dosage adjustment is necessary for patients already tolerating 441 mg. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Aripiprazole is CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate, adagrasib is a moderate CYP2D6 and strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with aripiprazole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with aripiprazole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Alfuzosin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and alfuzosin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Alogliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Alogliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and metformin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Alogliptin; Pioglitazone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant aripiprazole and pioglitazone use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Alpha-glucosidase Inhibitors: (Moderate) Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus and cause metabolic changes such as hyperglycemia. Monitor patients on antidiabetic agents for worsening glycemic control. The atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Aggravation of diabetes mellitus has been reported. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
ALPRAZolam: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of aripiprazole and benzodiazepines. Intensity of sedation and orthostatic hypotension were greater with the combination of oral aripiprazole and lorazepam compared to aripiprazole alone.
Amifampridine: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with atypical antipsychotics and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Atypical antipsychotics may increase the risk of seizures.
aMILoride: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and adjust amiloride dose accordingly as aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and adjust amiloride dose accordingly as aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Amiodarone: (Major) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and amiodarone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase aripiprazole exposure and the risk for other adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Additionally, an aripiprazole dosage adjustment may be needed. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6/CYP3A inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Aripiprazole is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate, amiodarone is a weak CYP2D6 and CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Due to the extremely long half-life of amiodarone, a drug interaction is possible for days to weeks after drug discontinuation. (Major) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and amiodarone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase aripiprazole exposure and the risk for other adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Additionally, an aripiprazole dosage reduction is necessary; management recommendations vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer a quarter of the usual dose. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 200 mg/month or from 300 mg to 160 mg/month. Aripiprazole is CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate, amiodarone is a weak CYP2D6 and CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Due to the extremely long half-life of amiodarone, a drug interaction is possible for days to weeks after drug discontinuation.
Amisulpride: (Major) Monitor ECGs for QT prolongation when amisulpride is administered with aripiprazole. Amisulpride causes dose- and concentration- dependent QT prolongation. QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of aripiprazole and following overdose.
Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of aripiprazole and tricyclic antidepressants due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions and hypotension during concomitant use of amlodipine. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus amlodipine may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Additionally, aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents such as amlodipine. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions and hypotension during concomitant use of amlodipine. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus amlodipine may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Additionally, aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents such as amlodipine. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions and hypotension during concomitant use of amlodipine. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus amlodipine may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Additionally, aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents such as amlodipine. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions and hypotension during concomitant use of amlodipine. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus amlodipine may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Additionally, aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents such as amlodipine. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of celecoxib. Patients receiving both a CYP3A inhibitor plus celecoxib may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form and CYP3A inhibitor strength. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; celecoxib is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions and hypotension during concomitant use of amlodipine. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus amlodipine may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Additionally, aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents such as amlodipine. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions and hypotension during concomitant use of amlodipine. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus amlodipine may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Additionally, aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents such as amlodipine. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions and hypotension during concomitant use of amlodipine. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus amlodipine may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Additionally, aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents such as amlodipine. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Amobarbital: (Major) Because aripiprazole is metabolized by CYP3A4, the manufacturer recommends that the oral aripiprazole dose be doubled over 1 to 2 weeks when strong CYP3A4 inducers, such as barbiturates, are added to aripiprazole therapy. If these agents are used in combination, the patient should be carefully monitored for a decrease in aripiprazole efficacy. When the CYP3A4 inducer is withdrawn from the combination therapy, the aripiprazole dose in adults should be reduced over 1 to 2 weeks to the original level. Avoid concurrent use of Abilify Maintena with a CYP3A4 inducer when the combined treatment period exceeds 14 days because aripiprazole blood concentrations decline and may become suboptimal. In adults receiving 662 mg, 882 mg, or 1,064 mg of Aristada and receiving a strong CYP3A4 inducer, no dosage adjustment is necessary; however, the 441 mg dose should be increased to 662 mg if the CYP inducer is added for more than 2 weeks. Avoid concurrent use of Aristada Initio and strong CYP3A4 inducers. Additive CNS effects are possible, including drowsiness or dizziness. Patients should report any unusual changes in moods or behaviors while taking this combination.
Amoxapine: (Moderate) Use caution during co-administration of amoxapine and aripiprazole. Amoxapine exhibits some antipsychotic activity and may increase the risk of tardive dyskinesia or neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) when antipsychotics are given concurrently. CNS effects, orthostatic hypotension, anticholinergic effects, and lowering of seizure threshold are potential problems with the combined use of amoxapine and antipsychotics.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and increases aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Additionally, an aripiprazole dosage reduction is required; management recommendations vary by aripiprazole dosage form and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer half of the usual dose; administer a quarter of the usual dose to patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 300 mg/month or from 300 mg to 200 mg/month; administer 200 mg/month to patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For extended-release aripiprazole injections given once every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), reduce the dosage from 960 mg to 720 mg; avoid use in patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Aripiprazole is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate, clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. (Major) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and increases aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Additionally, an aripiprazole dosage reduction is required; management recommendations vary by aripiprazole dosage form and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), reduce the dose to the next lowest strength; no dosage adjustment is required for patients tolerating 441 mg. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada) in patients who are known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6, reduce the dose to 441 mg; no dosage adjustment is necessary for patients already tolerating 441 mg. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Aripiprazole is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate, clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Anagrelide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and anagrelide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Angiotensin II receptor antagonists: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Apalutamide: (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and apalutamide vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, double the usual dose over 1 to 2 weeks. For extended-release aripiprazole injections administered monthly (Abilify Maintena) and every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), avoid concomitant use. Concomitant use may decrease aripiprazole exposure and reduce efficacy. Aripiprazole is CYP3A substrate; apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and apalutamide vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), increase the 441 mg dose to 662 mg; no adjustments are necessary for other dosages. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Concomitant use may decrease aripiprazole exposure and reduce efficacy. Aripiprazole is CYP3A substrate; apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Apomorphine: (Moderate) Use apomorphine and aripiprazole with caution due to a risk for QT prolongation and sedation. Apomorphine and aripiprazole may decrease the effectiveness of each other due to opposing effects on dopamine. Additive CNS effects are also possible. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of aripiprazole and following overdose. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with Parkinson's disease treatments than traditional antipsychotics. Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, sedation, fast, irregular heartbeat, and diminished effectiveness of either agent during coadministration.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of aprepitant/fosaprepitant. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus aprepitant/fosaprepitant may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; aprepitant/fosaprepitant is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Armodafinil: (Moderate) In vitro data indicate that armodafinil is an inducer of CYP3A4/5 isoenzymes. Decreased blood levels of aripiprazole are expected when the drug is coadministered with inducers of CYP3A4, such as armodafinil. A dosage adjustment of aripiprazole may be necessary when these drugs are used concomitantly, and conversely, when armodafinil is discontinued in a patient taking aripiprazole. Avoid concurrent use of Abilify Maintena with a CYP3A4 inducer when the combined treatment period exceeds 14 days because aripiprazole blood concentrations decline and may become suboptimal. There are no dosing recommendations for Aristada or Aristada Initio during use of a mild to moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Arsenic Trioxide: (Major) QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of aripiprazole and following overdose. If possible, drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval should be discontinued prior to initiating arsenic trioxide therapy. QT prolongation should be expected with the administration of arsenic trioxide. Torsade de pointes (TdP) and complete atrioventricular block have been reported.
Artemether; Lumefantrine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of aripiprazole and lumefantrine, if possible, especially in patients with risk factors for torsade de pointes (TdP). If use is necessary in patients who are receiving both a CYP3A inhibitor plus lumefantrine, an aripiprazole dosage reduction may be required. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form and CYP3A inhibitor strength. See prescribing information for details. Additionally, monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse effects and consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for QT prolongation and TdP. Aripiprazole is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate, lumefantrine is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT prolongation.
Asciminib: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of asciminib. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus asciminib may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; asciminib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Asenapine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of aripiprazole and asenapine. If use is necessary, patients who are receiving both a CYP3A inhibitor plus asenapine may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form and CYP3A inhibitor strength. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase the risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), and may increase aripiprazole exposure and the risk for other aripiprazole-related adverse effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; asenapine is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor. Both medications have been associated with QT prolongation and TdP. Both antipsychotic medications may affect coordination, reaction time, or judgment.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Because aripiprazole is metabolized by CYP3A4, the manufacturer recommends that the oral aripiprazole dose be doubled over 1 to 2 weeks when strong CYP3A4 inducers, such as barbiturates, are added to aripiprazole therapy. If these agents are used in combination, the patient should be carefully monitored for a decrease in aripiprazole efficacy. When the CYP3A4 inducer is withdrawn from the combination therapy, the aripiprazole dose in adults should be reduced over 1 to 2 weeks to the original level. Avoid concurrent use of Abilify Maintena with a CYP3A4 inducer when the combined treatment period exceeds 14 days because aripiprazole blood concentrations decline and may become suboptimal. In adults receiving 662 mg, 882 mg, or 1,064 mg of Aristada and receiving a strong CYP3A4 inducer, no dosage adjustment is necessary; however, the 441 mg dose should be increased to 662 mg if the CYP inducer is added for more than 2 weeks. Avoid concurrent use of Aristada Initio and strong CYP3A4 inducers. Additive CNS effects are possible, including drowsiness or dizziness. Patients should report any unusual changes in moods or behaviors while taking this combination.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with aripiprazole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking aripiprazole. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with aripiprazole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with aripiprazole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with aripiprazole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Atazanavir: (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and atazanavir vary by aripiprazole dosage form and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer half of the usual dose; administer a quarter of the usual dose to patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 300 mg/month or from 300 mg to 200 mg/month; administer 200 mg/month to patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For extended-release aripiprazole injections given once every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), reduce the dosage from 960 mg to 720 mg; avoid use in patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and atazanavir vary by aripiprazole dosage form and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), reduce the dose to the next lowest strength; no dosage adjustment is required for patients tolerating 441 mg. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada) in patients who are known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6, reduce the dose to 441 mg; no dosage adjustment is necessary for patients already tolerating 441 mg. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and atazanavir vary by aripiprazole dosage form and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer half of the usual dose; administer a quarter of the usual dose to patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 300 mg/month or from 300 mg to 200 mg/month; administer 200 mg/month to patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For extended-release aripiprazole injections given once every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), reduce the dosage from 960 mg to 720 mg; avoid use in patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and atazanavir vary by aripiprazole dosage form and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), reduce the dose to the next lowest strength; no dosage adjustment is required for patients tolerating 441 mg. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada) in patients who are known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6, reduce the dose to 441 mg; no dosage adjustment is necessary for patients already tolerating 441 mg. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and cobicistat vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer a quarter of the usual dose. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 200 mg/month or from 300 mg to 160 mg/month. For extended-release aripiprazole injections given once every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), reduce the dosage from 960 mg to 720 mg; avoid use in patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; cobicistat is a weak CYP2D6 and strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and cobicistat vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), reduce the dose to the next lowest strength; no dosage adjustment is required for patients tolerating 441 mg. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada) in patients who are known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6, reduce the dose to 441 mg; no dosage adjustment is necessary for patients already tolerating 441 mg. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; cobicistat is a weak CYP2D6 and strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Atenolol: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. It may be advisable to monitor blood pressure when these medications are coadministered.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. It may be advisable to monitor blood pressure when these medications are coadministered.
Atomoxetine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and atomoxetine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of diphenoxylate/difenoxin with aripiprazole can potentiate the CNS-depressant effects of diphenoxylate/difenoxin. Use caution during coadministration.
Avacopan: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of avacopan. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus avacopan may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Azilsartan: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Azithromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of azithromycin and aripiprazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Barbiturates: (Major) Because aripiprazole is metabolized by CYP3A4, the manufacturer recommends that the oral aripiprazole dose be doubled over 1 to 2 weeks when strong CYP3A4 inducers, such as barbiturates, are added to aripiprazole therapy. If these agents are used in combination, the patient should be carefully monitored for a decrease in aripiprazole efficacy. When the CYP3A4 inducer is withdrawn from the combination therapy, the aripiprazole dose in adults should be reduced over 1 to 2 weeks to the original level. Avoid concurrent use of Abilify Maintena with a CYP3A4 inducer when the combined treatment period exceeds 14 days because aripiprazole blood concentrations decline and may become suboptimal. In adults receiving 662 mg, 882 mg, or 1,064 mg of Aristada and receiving a strong CYP3A4 inducer, no dosage adjustment is necessary; however, the 441 mg dose should be increased to 662 mg if the CYP inducer is added for more than 2 weeks. Avoid concurrent use of Aristada Initio and strong CYP3A4 inducers. Additive CNS effects are possible, including drowsiness or dizziness. Patients should report any unusual changes in moods or behaviors while taking this combination.
Bedaquiline: (Major) QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of aripiprazole and following overdose. Bedaquiline has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Prior to initiating bedaquiline, obtain serum electrolyte concentrations and a baseline ECG. An ECG should also be performed at least 2, 12, and 24 weeks after starting bedaquiline therapy. Coadministration with other QT prolonging drugs may result in additive or synergistic prolongation of the QT interval.
Belladonna; Opium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with aripiprazole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with aripiprazole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Belumosudil: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of belumosudil. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus belumosudil may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; belumosudil is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Benazepril: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with aripiprazole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with aripiprazole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Benzodiazepines: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of aripiprazole and benzodiazepines. Intensity of sedation and orthostatic hypotension were greater with the combination of oral aripiprazole and lorazepam compared to aripiprazole alone.
Berotralstat: (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and berotralstat vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer a quarter of the usual dose. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 200 mg/month or from 300 mg to 160 mg/month. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; berotralstat is a moderate CYP2D6 and moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Beta-adrenergic blockers: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. It may be advisable to monitor blood pressure when these medications are coadministered.
Betaxolol: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. It may be advisable to monitor blood pressure when these medications are coadministered.
Bexagliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and SGLT2 inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Bexarotene: (Moderate) Because aripiprazole is partially metabolized by CYP3A4, concurrent use of CYP3A4 inducers such as bexarotene may result in decreased plasma concentrations of aripiprazole. If these agents are used in combination, the patient should be carefully monitored for a decrease in aripiprazole efficacy. An increase in aripiprazole dosage may be clinically warranted in some patients. Avoid concurrent use of Abilify Maintena with a CYP3A4 inducer when the combined treatment period exceeds 14 days because aripiprazole blood concentrations decline and may become suboptimal. There are no dosing recommendations for Aristada or Aristada Initio during use of a mild to moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Bicalutamide: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of bicalutamide. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus bicalutamide may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; bicalutamide is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of lenacapavir. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus lenacapavir may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Bismuth Subcitrate Potassium; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and aripiprazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and aripiprazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Bisoprolol: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. It may be advisable to monitor blood pressure when these medications are coadministered.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. It may be advisable to monitor blood pressure when these medications are coadministered.
Brexpiprazole: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of brexpiprazole and aripiprazole should be avoided. Aripiprazole and brexpiprazole are both atypical antipsychotics of the dopamine system stabilizer subclass and have similar mechanisms of action. In addition, the risk of drowsiness, dizziness, hypotension, extrapyramidal symptoms, anticholinergic effects, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, or seizures may be increased during combined use.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. It may be advisable to monitor blood pressure when these medications are coadministered.
Bromocriptine: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in bromocriptine efficacy if concomitant use with an atypical antipsychotic is necessary. Bromocriptine is a dopamine D2 receptor agonist and atypical antipsychotics are dopamine receptor antagonists.
Brompheniramine: (Moderate) Due to the primary CNS effects of aripiprazole, caution should be used when aripiprazole is given in combination with other centrally-acting medications including sedating H1-blockers. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may occur.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Due to the primary CNS effects of aripiprazole, caution should be used when aripiprazole is given in combination with other centrally-acting medications including sedating H1-blockers. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may occur.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Due to the primary CNS effects of aripiprazole, caution should be used when aripiprazole is given in combination with other centrally-acting medications including sedating H1-blockers. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may occur.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Due to the primary CNS effects of aripiprazole, caution should be used when aripiprazole is given in combination with other centrally-acting medications including sedating H1-blockers. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may occur.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Due to the primary CNS effects of aripiprazole, caution should be used when aripiprazole is given in combination with other centrally-acting medications including sedating H1-blockers. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may occur.
Bumetanide: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Buprenorphine: (Major) Due to the potential for QT prolongation and additive CNS depressant effects, cautious use and close monitoring are advisable if concurrent use of aripiprazole and buprenorphine is necessary. Buprenorphine has been associated with QT prolongation and has a possible risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of aripiprazole and following overdose. FDA-approved labeling for some buprenorphine products recommend avoiding use with Class 1A and Class III antiarrhythmic medications while other labels recommend avoiding use with any drug that has the potential to prolong the QT interval. If concurrent use of aripiprazole and buprenorphine is necessary, consider a dose reduction of one or both drugs. Hypotension, profound sedation, coma, respiratory depression, or death may occur during co-administration of buprenorphine and other CNS depressants. Prior to concurrent use of buprenorphine in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Evaluate the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. It is recommended that the injectable buprenorphine dose be halved for patients who receive other drugs with CNS depressant effects; for the buprenorphine transdermal patch, start with the 5 mcg/hour patch. Monitor patients for sedation or respiratory depression.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Major) Due to the potential for QT prolongation and additive CNS depressant effects, cautious use and close monitoring are advisable if concurrent use of aripiprazole and buprenorphine is necessary. Buprenorphine has been associated with QT prolongation and has a possible risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of aripiprazole and following overdose. FDA-approved labeling for some buprenorphine products recommend avoiding use with Class 1A and Class III antiarrhythmic medications while other labels recommend avoiding use with any drug that has the potential to prolong the QT interval. If concurrent use of aripiprazole and buprenorphine is necessary, consider a dose reduction of one or both drugs. Hypotension, profound sedation, coma, respiratory depression, or death may occur during co-administration of buprenorphine and other CNS depressants. Prior to concurrent use of buprenorphine in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Evaluate the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. It is recommended that the injectable buprenorphine dose be halved for patients who receive other drugs with CNS depressant effects; for the buprenorphine transdermal patch, start with the 5 mcg/hour patch. Monitor patients for sedation or respiratory depression.
buPROPion: (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and bupropion vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer half of the usual dose. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 300 mg/month or from 300 mg to 200 mg/month. For extended-release aripiprazole injections given once every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), reduce the dosage from 960 mg to 720 mg. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP3A inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; bupropion is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and bupropion vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), reduce the dose to the next lowest strength; no dosage adjustment is required for patients tolerating 441 mg or for patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP3A inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; bupropion is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
buPROPion; Naltrexone: (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and bupropion vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer half of the usual dose. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 300 mg/month or from 300 mg to 200 mg/month. For extended-release aripiprazole injections given once every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), reduce the dosage from 960 mg to 720 mg. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP3A inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; bupropion is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and bupropion vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), reduce the dose to the next lowest strength; no dosage adjustment is required for patients tolerating 441 mg or for patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP3A inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; bupropion is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
busPIRone: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and buspirone use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Because aripiprazole is metabolized by CYP3A4, the manufacturer recommends that the oral aripiprazole dose be doubled over 1 to 2 weeks when strong CYP3A4 inducers, such as barbiturates, are added to aripiprazole therapy. If these agents are used in combination, the patient should be carefully monitored for a decrease in aripiprazole efficacy. When the CYP3A4 inducer is withdrawn from the combination therapy, the aripiprazole dose in adults should be reduced over 1 to 2 weeks to the original level. Avoid concurrent use of Abilify Maintena with a CYP3A4 inducer when the combined treatment period exceeds 14 days because aripiprazole blood concentrations decline and may become suboptimal. In adults receiving 662 mg, 882 mg, or 1,064 mg of Aristada and receiving a strong CYP3A4 inducer, no dosage adjustment is necessary; however, the 441 mg dose should be increased to 662 mg if the CYP inducer is added for more than 2 weeks. Avoid concurrent use of Aristada Initio and strong CYP3A4 inducers. Additive CNS effects are possible, including drowsiness or dizziness. Patients should report any unusual changes in moods or behaviors while taking this combination.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Because aripiprazole is metabolized by CYP3A4, the manufacturer recommends that the oral aripiprazole dose be doubled over 1 to 2 weeks when strong CYP3A4 inducers, such as barbiturates, are added to aripiprazole therapy. If these agents are used in combination, the patient should be carefully monitored for a decrease in aripiprazole efficacy. When the CYP3A4 inducer is withdrawn from the combination therapy, the aripiprazole dose in adults should be reduced over 1 to 2 weeks to the original level. Avoid concurrent use of Abilify Maintena with a CYP3A4 inducer when the combined treatment period exceeds 14 days because aripiprazole blood concentrations decline and may become suboptimal. In adults receiving 662 mg, 882 mg, or 1,064 mg of Aristada and receiving a strong CYP3A4 inducer, no dosage adjustment is necessary; however, the 441 mg dose should be increased to 662 mg if the CYP inducer is added for more than 2 weeks. Avoid concurrent use of Aristada Initio and strong CYP3A4 inducers. Additive CNS effects are possible, including drowsiness or dizziness. Patients should report any unusual changes in moods or behaviors while taking this combination.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Because aripiprazole is metabolized by CYP3A4, the manufacturer recommends that the oral aripiprazole dose be doubled over 1 to 2 weeks when strong CYP3A4 inducers, such as barbiturates, are added to aripiprazole therapy. If these agents are used in combination, the patient should be carefully monitored for a decrease in aripiprazole efficacy. When the CYP3A4 inducer is withdrawn from the combination therapy, the aripiprazole dose in adults should be reduced over 1 to 2 weeks to the original level. Avoid concurrent use of Abilify Maintena with a CYP3A4 inducer when the combined treatment period exceeds 14 days because aripiprazole blood concentrations decline and may become suboptimal. In adults receiving 662 mg, 882 mg, or 1,064 mg of Aristada and receiving a strong CYP3A4 inducer, no dosage adjustment is necessary; however, the 441 mg dose should be increased to 662 mg if the CYP inducer is added for more than 2 weeks. Avoid concurrent use of Aristada Initio and strong CYP3A4 inducers. Additive CNS effects are possible, including drowsiness or dizziness. Patients should report any unusual changes in moods or behaviors while taking this combination. (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with aripiprazole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking aripiprazole. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with aripiprazole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Because aripiprazole is metabolized by CYP3A4, the manufacturer recommends that the oral aripiprazole dose be doubled over 1 to 2 weeks when strong CYP3A4 inducers, such as barbiturates, are added to aripiprazole therapy. If these agents are used in combination, the patient should be carefully monitored for a decrease in aripiprazole efficacy. When the CYP3A4 inducer is withdrawn from the combination therapy, the aripiprazole dose in adults should be reduced over 1 to 2 weeks to the original level. Avoid concurrent use of Abilify Maintena with a CYP3A4 inducer when the combined treatment period exceeds 14 days because aripiprazole blood concentrations decline and may become suboptimal. In adults receiving 662 mg, 882 mg, or 1,064 mg of Aristada and receiving a strong CYP3A4 inducer, no dosage adjustment is necessary; however, the 441 mg dose should be increased to 662 mg if the CYP inducer is added for more than 2 weeks. Avoid concurrent use of Aristada Initio and strong CYP3A4 inducers. Additive CNS effects are possible, including drowsiness or dizziness. Patients should report any unusual changes in moods or behaviors while taking this combination. (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with aripiprazole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking aripiprazole. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with aripiprazole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Butorphanol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of butorphanol with other CNS depressants, such as aripiprazole, can potentiate the effects of butorphanol on respiratory depression, CNS depression, and sedation.
Cabergoline: (Moderate) Cabergoline should not be coadministered with aripiprazole due to mutually antagonistic effects on dopaminergic function. The dopamine antagonist action of aripiprazole may diminish the prolactin-lowering ability of cabergoline while the dopamine agonist effects of cabergoline may exacerbate a psychotic disorder, reducing the effectiveness of antipsychotics such as aripiprazole.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and rilpivirine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose.
Canagliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and SGLT2 inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Canagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and metformin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and SGLT2 inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Candesartan: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Cannabidiol: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of cannabidiol and aripiprazole. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Capivasertib: (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and capivasertib vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer a quarter of the usual dose. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 200 mg/month or from 300 mg to 160 mg/month. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; capivasertib is a moderate CYP2D6 and weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Captopril: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and carbamazepine vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, double the usual dose over 1 to 2 weeks. For extended-release aripiprazole injections administered monthly (Abilify Maintena) and every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), avoid concomitant use. Concomitant use may decrease aripiprazole exposure and reduce efficacy. Aripiprazole is CYP3A substrate; carbamazepine is a strong CYP3A inducer. (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and carbamazepine vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), increase the 441 mg dose to 662 mg; no adjustments are necessary for other dosages. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Concomitant use may decrease aripiprazole exposure and reduce efficacy. Aripiprazole is CYP3A substrate; carbamazepine is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Carbidopa; Levodopa: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as atypical antipsychotics. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as atypical antipsychotics, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Carbidopa; Levodopa; Entacapone: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as atypical antipsychotics. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as atypical antipsychotics, interfere with dopamine's actions. (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or COMT inhibitor during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with COMT inhibitors and other Parkinson's treatments than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Carbinoxamine: (Moderate) Due to the primary CNS effects of aripiprazole, caution should be used when aripiprazole is given in combination with other centrally-acting medications including sedating H1-blockers. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may occur.
Cariprazine: (Moderate) The risk of adverse effects may be increased during concurrent use of cariprazine with other antipsychotics, such as aripiprazole. Similar to other antipsychotics, cariprazine administration has been associated with drowsiness, dizziness, orthostatic hypotension, extrapyramidal symptoms, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, and seizures. The likelihood of these pharmacodynamic interactions varies based upon the individual properties of the co-administered antipsychotic agent. The incidence of tardive dyskinesia from combination antipsychotic therapy has not been established and data are very limited, but the risk appears to be increased.
Carteolol: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. It may be advisable to monitor blood pressure when these medications are coadministered.
Carvedilol: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. It may be advisable to monitor blood pressure when these medications are coadministered.
Celecoxib: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of celecoxib. Patients receiving both a CYP3A inhibitor plus celecoxib may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form and CYP3A inhibitor strength. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; celecoxib is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of tramadol and aripiprazole for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation as well as seizures. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, seizures, and death. (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of celecoxib. Patients receiving both a CYP3A inhibitor plus celecoxib may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form and CYP3A inhibitor strength. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; celecoxib is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Cenobamate: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of cenobamate and aripiprazole. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Central-acting adrenergic agents: (Minor) Due to aripiprazole's antagonism at alpha 1-adrenergic receptors, the drug may enhance the hypotensive effects of alpha-blockers and other antihypertensive agents.
Ceritinib: (Major) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and ceritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and increases aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Additionally, an aripiprazole dosage reduction is required; management recommendations vary by aripiprazole dosage form and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer half of the usual dose; administer a quarter of the usual dose to patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 300 mg/month or from 300 mg to 200 mg/month; administer 200 mg/month to patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For extended-release aripiprazole injections given once every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), reduce the dosage from 960 mg to 720 mg; avoid use in patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Aripiprazole is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate, ceritinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. (Major) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and ceritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and increases aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Additionally, an aripiprazole dosage reduction is required; management recommendations vary by aripiprazole dosage form and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), reduce the dose to the next lowest strength; no dosage adjustment is required for patients tolerating 441 mg. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada) in patients who are known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6, reduce the dose to 441 mg; no dosage adjustment is necessary for patients already tolerating 441 mg. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Aripiprazole is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate, ceritinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Cetirizine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of atypical antipsychotics and cetirizine due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of atypical antipsychotics and cetirizine due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Cetrorelix: (Moderate) Antipsychotic-induced hyperprolactinemia results in down-regulation of the number of pituitary GnRH receptors and may interfere with the response to any of the gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) analogs including cetrorelix.
Charcoal: (Major) Aripiprazole absorption is reduced when activated charcoal is coadministered within an hour of a 15 mg dosage, resulting in a decrease in aripiprazole AUC and Cmax by roughly 50%. Concomitant administration of aripiprazole with activated charcoal is not recommended. However, administration of activated charcoal may be appropriate in certain aripiprazole overdose situations.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Due to the primary CNS effects of aripiprazole, caution should be used when aripiprazole is given in combination with other centrally-acting medications including sedating H1-blockers. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may occur.
Chloramphenicol: (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and chloramphenicol vary by aripiprazole dosage form and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer half of the usual dose; administer a quarter of the usual dose to patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 300 mg/month or from 300 mg to 200 mg/month; administer 200 mg/month to patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For extended-release aripiprazole injections given once every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), reduce the dosage from 960 mg to 720 mg; avoid use in patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and chloramphenicol vary by aripiprazole dosage form and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), reduce the dose to the next lowest strength; no dosage adjustment is required for patients tolerating 441 mg. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada) in patients who are known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6, reduce the dose to 441 mg; no dosage adjustment is necessary for patients already tolerating 441 mg. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Chlorcyclizine: (Moderate) Additive CNS effects like drowsiness may be seen when combining sedating H1-blockers with atypical antipsychotics.
chlordiazePOXIDE: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of aripiprazole and benzodiazepines. Intensity of sedation and orthostatic hypotension were greater with the combination of oral aripiprazole and lorazepam compared to aripiprazole alone.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of aripiprazole and benzodiazepines. Intensity of sedation and orthostatic hypotension were greater with the combination of oral aripiprazole and lorazepam compared to aripiprazole alone. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of aripiprazole and tricyclic antidepressants due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of aripiprazole and benzodiazepines. Intensity of sedation and orthostatic hypotension were greater with the combination of oral aripiprazole and lorazepam compared to aripiprazole alone.
Chloroquine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of chloroquine with aripiprazole due to the increased risk of QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain an ECG at baseline to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. Chloroquine is associated with an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP); the risk of QT prolongation is increased with higher chloroquine doses. QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of aripiprazole and following overdose.
Chlorothiazide: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with aripiprazole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking aripiprazole. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with aripiprazole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with aripiprazole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking aripiprazole Limit the use of opioid pain medications with aripiprazole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
chlorproMAZINE: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of aripiprazole and chlorpromazine. If use is necessary in patients who are receiving both a CYP3A inhibitor plus chlorpromazine, an aripiprazole dosage reduction may be required. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form and CYP3A inhibitor strength. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression, extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS), QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), and may increase aripiprazole exposure and the risk for other aripiprazole-related adverse effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; chlorpromazine is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor. Both medications have been associated with CNS depression, EPS, QT prolongation, and TdP.
Chlorthalidone: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Cimetidine: (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and cimetidine vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer a quarter of the usual dose. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 200 mg/month or from 300 mg to 160 mg/month. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; cimetidine is a weak CYP2D6 and weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Cinacalcet: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of cinacalcet. Patients receiving both a CYP3A inhibitor plus cinacalcet may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form and CYP3A inhibitor strength. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; cinacalcet is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Ciprofloxacin: (Moderate) Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus ciprofloxacin may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Additionally, concomitant use may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; ciprofloxacin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Both medications have been associated with QT prolongation.
Cisapride: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of cisapride and aripiprazole due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Citalopram: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of aripiprazole and citalopram, if possible, especially in patients with risk factors for torsade de pointes (TdP). If use is necessary, patients receiving both a CYP3A inhibitor plus citalopram may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment; dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form and CYP3A inhibitor strength. See prescribing information for details. Additionally, monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse effects and consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and increase the risk for QT prolongation and TdP. Aripiprazole is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; citalopram is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor. Both medications have been associated with QT prolongation.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and increases aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Additionally, an aripiprazole dosage reduction is required; management recommendations vary by aripiprazole dosage form and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer half of the usual dose; administer a quarter of the usual dose to patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 300 mg/month or from 300 mg to 200 mg/month; administer 200 mg/month to patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For extended-release aripiprazole injections given once every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), reduce the dosage from 960 mg to 720 mg; avoid use in patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Aripiprazole is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate, clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. (Major) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and increases aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Additionally, an aripiprazole dosage reduction is required; management recommendations vary by aripiprazole dosage form and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), reduce the dose to the next lowest strength; no dosage adjustment is required for patients tolerating 441 mg. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada) in patients who are known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6, reduce the dose to 441 mg; no dosage adjustment is necessary for patients already tolerating 441 mg. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Aripiprazole is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate, clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Clemastine: (Moderate) Due to the primary CNS effects of aripiprazole, caution should be used when aripiprazole is given in combination with other centrally-acting medications including sedating H1-blockers. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may occur.
cloBAZam: (Moderate) Clobazam, a benzodiazepine, should be combined cautiously with atypical antipsychotics because of the potential for additive CNS depressant effects. Antipsychotics may also lower the seizure threshold, which might effect the efficacy of clobazam to treat seizures. Clobazam is a weak inducer of CYP3A4 and may reduce the efficacy of atypical antipsychotics that are significantly metabolized by CYP3A4; consult the atypical antipsychotic product labeling for clinical relevance.
Clofazimine: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of clofazimine. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus clofazimine may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Additionally, concomitant use may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; clofazimine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Both medications have been associated with QT prolongation.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of aripiprazole and tricyclic antidepressants due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
clonazePAM: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of aripiprazole and benzodiazepines. Intensity of sedation and orthostatic hypotension were greater with the combination of oral aripiprazole and lorazepam compared to aripiprazole alone.
cloNIDine: (Minor) Due to aripiprazole's antagonism at alpha 1-adrenergic receptors, the drug may enhance the hypotensive effects of alpha-blockers and other antihypertensive agents.
Clorazepate: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of aripiprazole and benzodiazepines. Intensity of sedation and orthostatic hypotension were greater with the combination of oral aripiprazole and lorazepam compared to aripiprazole alone.
cloZAPine: (Major) QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of aripiprazole and following overdose. Clozapine is an atypical antipsychotic with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with aripiprazole. In addition, caution is advisable when aripiprazole is given in combination with other CNS depressants such as other atypical antipsychotics. The risk of drowsiness, dizziness, hypotension, extrapyramidal symptoms, anticholinergic effects, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, tardive dyskinesia, or seizures may be increased during combined use; therefore, it may be advisable to initiate treatment with lower dosages if combination therapy is deemed necessary. The likelihood of these pharmacodynamic interactions varies based upon the individual properties of the co-administered antipsychotic agent.
Cobicistat: (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and cobicistat vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer a quarter of the usual dose. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 200 mg/month or from 300 mg to 160 mg/month. For extended-release aripiprazole injections given once every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), reduce the dosage from 960 mg to 720 mg; avoid use in patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; cobicistat is a weak CYP2D6 and strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and cobicistat vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), reduce the dose to the next lowest strength; no dosage adjustment is required for patients tolerating 441 mg. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada) in patients who are known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6, reduce the dose to 441 mg; no dosage adjustment is necessary for patients already tolerating 441 mg. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; cobicistat is a weak CYP2D6 and strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with aripiprazole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking aripiprazole. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with aripiprazole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with aripiprazole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking aripiprazole. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with aripiprazole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with aripiprazole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking aripiprazole. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with aripiprazole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with aripiprazole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking aripiprazole. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with aripiprazole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and promethazine may increase the risk of CNS depression and QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Monitor for unusual drowsiness and excess sedation and consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with aripiprazole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking aripiprazole. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with aripiprazole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and promethazine may increase the risk of CNS depression and QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Monitor for unusual drowsiness and excess sedation and consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with aripiprazole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking aripiprazole. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with aripiprazole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
COMT inhibitors: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or COMT inhibitor during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with COMT inhibitors and other Parkinson's treatments than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Conivaptan: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of conivaptan. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus conivaptan may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; conivaptan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Crizotinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use aripiprazole and crizotinib, if possible, especially in patients with risk factors for torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary, patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus crizotinib may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Concomitant use increases the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and TdP and may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate, crizotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT interval prolongation.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of cyclosporine. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus cyclosporine may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; cyclosporine is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Cyproheptadine: (Moderate) Due to the primary CNS effects of aripiprazole, caution should be used when aripiprazole is given in combination with other centrally-acting medications including sedating H1-blockers. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may occur.
Dacomitinib: (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and dacomitinib vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer half of the usual dose. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 300 mg/month or from 300 mg to 200 mg/month. For extended-release aripiprazole injections given once every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), reduce the dosage from 960 mg to 720 mg. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP3A inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and dacomitinib vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), reduce the dose to the next lowest strength; no dosage adjustment is required for patients tolerating 441 mg or for patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP3A inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Dalfopristin; Quinupristin: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of quinupristin. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus quinupristin may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; quinupristin is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Danazol: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of danazol. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus danazol may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; danazol is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Dapagliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and SGLT2 inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Dapagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and metformin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and SGLT2 inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Dapagliflozin; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and SGLT2 inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Daridorexant: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of daridorexant. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus daridorexant may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; daridorexant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Darifenacin: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of darifenacin. Patients receiving both a CYP3A inhibitor plus darifenacin may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form and CYP3A inhibitor strength. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; darifenacin is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Darunavir: (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and darunavir vary by aripiprazole dosage form and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer half of the usual dose; administer a quarter of the usual dose to patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 300 mg/month or from 300 mg to 200 mg/month; administer 200 mg/month to patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For extended-release aripiprazole injections given once every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), reduce the dosage from 960 mg to 720 mg; avoid use in patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and darunavir vary by aripiprazole dosage form and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), reduce the dose to the next lowest strength; no dosage adjustment is required for patients tolerating 441 mg. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada) in patients who are known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6, reduce the dose to 441 mg; no dosage adjustment is necessary for patients already tolerating 441 mg. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and cobicistat vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer a quarter of the usual dose. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 200 mg/month or from 300 mg to 160 mg/month. For extended-release aripiprazole injections given once every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), reduce the dosage from 960 mg to 720 mg; avoid use in patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; cobicistat is a weak CYP2D6 and strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and cobicistat vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), reduce the dose to the next lowest strength; no dosage adjustment is required for patients tolerating 441 mg. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada) in patients who are known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6, reduce the dose to 441 mg; no dosage adjustment is necessary for patients already tolerating 441 mg. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; cobicistat is a weak CYP2D6 and strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and darunavir vary by aripiprazole dosage form and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer half of the usual dose; administer a quarter of the usual dose to patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 300 mg/month or from 300 mg to 200 mg/month; administer 200 mg/month to patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For extended-release aripiprazole injections given once every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), reduce the dosage from 960 mg to 720 mg; avoid use in patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and darunavir vary by aripiprazole dosage form and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), reduce the dose to the next lowest strength; no dosage adjustment is required for patients tolerating 441 mg. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada) in patients who are known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6, reduce the dose to 441 mg; no dosage adjustment is necessary for patients already tolerating 441 mg. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and cobicistat vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer a quarter of the usual dose. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 200 mg/month or from 300 mg to 160 mg/month. For extended-release aripiprazole injections given once every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), reduce the dosage from 960 mg to 720 mg; avoid use in patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; cobicistat is a weak CYP2D6 and strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and cobicistat vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), reduce the dose to the next lowest strength; no dosage adjustment is required for patients tolerating 441 mg. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada) in patients who are known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6, reduce the dose to 441 mg; no dosage adjustment is necessary for patients already tolerating 441 mg. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; cobicistat is a weak CYP2D6 and strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and darunavir vary by aripiprazole dosage form and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer half of the usual dose; administer a quarter of the usual dose to patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 300 mg/month or from 300 mg to 200 mg/month; administer 200 mg/month to patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For extended-release aripiprazole injections given once every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), reduce the dosage from 960 mg to 720 mg; avoid use in patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and darunavir vary by aripiprazole dosage form and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), reduce the dose to the next lowest strength; no dosage adjustment is required for patients tolerating 441 mg. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada) in patients who are known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6, reduce the dose to 441 mg; no dosage adjustment is necessary for patients already tolerating 441 mg. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Dasatinib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and dasatinib may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Degarelix: (Moderate) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Desflurane: (Major) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Desipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of aripiprazole and tricyclic antidepressants due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Desvenlafaxine: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of desvenlafaxine at a dose of at least 400 mg/day. Patients receiving both a CYP3A inhibitor plus desvenlafaxine at a dose of at least 400 mg/day may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form and CYP3A inhibitor strength. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; desvenlafaxine at a dose of at least 400 mg/day is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Deutetrabenazine: (Moderate) The risk of QT prolongation may be increased with coadministration of deutetrabenazine and aripiprazole. QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of aripiprazole and following overdose. Deutetrabenazine may prolong the QT interval, but the degree of QT prolongation is not clinically significant when deutetrabenazine is administered within the recommended dosage range. Monitor for signs and symptoms of neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS), restlessness, and agitation. If NMS is diagnosed, immediately discontinue deutetrabenazine, and provide intensive symptomatic treatment and medical monitoring. Recurrence of NMS has been reported with resumption of drug therapy. If akathisia or parkinsonism develops during treatment, the deutetrabenazine dose should be reduced; discontinuation may be required. Deutetrabenazine is a reversible, dopamine depleting drug and aripiprazole is a partial dopamine agonist. The risk for parkinsonism, NMS, or akathisia may be increased with concomitant administration. Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of aripiprazole and deutetrabenazine. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Dexchlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Due to the primary CNS effects of aripiprazole, caution should be used when aripiprazole is given in combination with other centrally-acting medications including sedating H1-blockers. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may occur.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Due to the primary CNS effects of aripiprazole, caution should be used when aripiprazole is given in combination with other centrally-acting medications including sedating H1-blockers. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may occur.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of dexmedetomidine and aripiprazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Dextromethorphan; buPROPion: (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and bupropion vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer half of the usual dose. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 300 mg/month or from 300 mg to 200 mg/month. For extended-release aripiprazole injections given once every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), reduce the dosage from 960 mg to 720 mg. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP3A inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; bupropion is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and bupropion vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), reduce the dose to the next lowest strength; no dosage adjustment is required for patients tolerating 441 mg or for patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP3A inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; bupropion is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of diphenhydramine. Patients receiving both a CYP3A inhibitor plus diphenhydramine may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form and CYP3A inhibitor strength. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; diphenhydramine is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Contraindicated) Avoid use of aripiprazole with quinidine unless the benefit outweighs the risk. Quinidine is generally contraindicated with other drugs that prolong the QT interval and are metabolized by CYP2D6, such as aripiprazole, as the effects on the QT interval may be increased. Manufacturer recommendations for this combination have varied. Do not use the combination product of dextromethorphan; quinidine with aripiprazole. The manufacturers of aripiprazole products do not contraindicate use of quinidine, but recommend dosage adjustments of aripiprazole when used with potent CYP2D6 inhibitors, such as quinidine. For example, the oral aripiprazole dose should be reduced by 50%. Injectable forms of aripiprazole require dose adjustment when the potent CYP2D6 inhibitor will be used for more than 14 days. See the manufacturer prescribing information for detailed recommendations. Both aripiprazole and quinidine are associated with QT prolongation. Increased aripiprazole exposure is likely when a potent CYP2D6 inhibitor like quinidine is used concurrently. In one evaluation, concurrent use of quinidine and oral aripiprazole resulted in an increase in the AUC of aripiprazole of 112% and a decrease in the AUC of its active metabolite by 35%.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of aripiprazole and benzodiazepines. Intensity of sedation and orthostatic hypotension were greater with the combination of oral aripiprazole and lorazepam compared to aripiprazole alone.
Difelikefalin: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
dilTIAZem: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of diltiazem. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus diltiazem may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; diltiazem is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
dimenhyDRINATE: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of dimenhydrinate and aripiprazole due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Dipeptidyl Peptidase-4 Inhibitors: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of diphenhydramine. Patients receiving both a CYP3A inhibitor plus diphenhydramine may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form and CYP3A inhibitor strength. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; diphenhydramine is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of diphenhydramine. Patients receiving both a CYP3A inhibitor plus diphenhydramine may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form and CYP3A inhibitor strength. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; diphenhydramine is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of diphenhydramine. Patients receiving both a CYP3A inhibitor plus diphenhydramine may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form and CYP3A inhibitor strength. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; diphenhydramine is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of diphenhydramine. Patients receiving both a CYP3A inhibitor plus diphenhydramine may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form and CYP3A inhibitor strength. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; diphenhydramine is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of diphenoxylate/difenoxin with aripiprazole can potentiate the CNS-depressant effects of diphenoxylate/difenoxin. Use caution during coadministration.
Disopyramide: (Major) Concomitant use of disopyramide and aripiprazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dofetilide: (Major) Concomitant use of dofetilide and aripiprazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and rilpivirine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose.
Donepezil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and donepezil may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and donepezil may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Dordaviprone: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and aripiprazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. It may be advisable to monitor blood pressure when these medications are coadministered.
Doxazosin: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Doxepin: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of aripiprazole and tricyclic antidepressants due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Doxylamine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of doxylamine and aripiprazole due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Doxylamine; Pyridoxine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of doxylamine and aripiprazole due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Drugs that can cause CNS depression such as dronabinol, if used concomitantly with atypical antipsychotics, can increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness.
Dronedarone: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of aripiprazole and dronedarone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of aripiprazole and dronedarone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use also increases aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. If concomitant use is necessary, an aripiprazole dosage reduction is required; management recommendations vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer a quarter of the usual dose. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 200 mg/month or from 300 mg to 160 mg/month. Aripiprazole is CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate, dronedarone is a moderate CYP2D6 and CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
droPERidol: (Major) According to the manufacturer of droperidol, any drug known to have the potential to prolong the QT interval should not be used together with droperidol. The product labeling contains a boxed warning regarding the risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of aripiprazole and following overdose. If concurrent use is unavoidable, extreme caution is recommended.
Dulaglutide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and incretin mimetic use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of duloxetine. Patients receiving both a CYP3A inhibitor plus duloxetine may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form and CYP3A inhibitor strength. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; duloxetine is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Duvelisib: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of duvelisib. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus duvelisib may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; duvelisib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Efavirenz: (Moderate) Consider alternatives to efavirenz when coadministering with aripiprazole as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QTc prolongation has been observed with the use of efavirenz. QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of aripiprazole and following overdose. In addition, decreased aripiprazole blood levels are expected when aripiprazole is coadministered with inducers of CYP3A4, such as efavirenz. Monitor the patient carefully for toxicity and efficacy if these agents are used in combination. Dosage adjustments of aripiprazole may be clinically warranted in some patients. Avoid concurrent use of Abilify Maintena with a CYP3A4 inducer when the combined treatment period exceeds 14 days because aripiprazole blood concentrations decline and may become suboptimal. There are no dosing recommendations for Aristada or Aristada Initio during use of a mild to moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Consider alternatives to efavirenz when coadministering with aripiprazole as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QTc prolongation has been observed with the use of efavirenz. QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of aripiprazole and following overdose. In addition, decreased aripiprazole blood levels are expected when aripiprazole is coadministered with inducers of CYP3A4, such as efavirenz. Monitor the patient carefully for toxicity and efficacy if these agents are used in combination. Dosage adjustments of aripiprazole may be clinically warranted in some patients. Avoid concurrent use of Abilify Maintena with a CYP3A4 inducer when the combined treatment period exceeds 14 days because aripiprazole blood concentrations decline and may become suboptimal. There are no dosing recommendations for Aristada or Aristada Initio during use of a mild to moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Consider alternatives to efavirenz when coadministering with aripiprazole as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QTc prolongation has been observed with the use of efavirenz. QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of aripiprazole and following overdose. In addition, decreased aripiprazole blood levels are expected when aripiprazole is coadministered with inducers of CYP3A4, such as efavirenz. Monitor the patient carefully for toxicity and efficacy if these agents are used in combination. Dosage adjustments of aripiprazole may be clinically warranted in some patients. Avoid concurrent use of Abilify Maintena with a CYP3A4 inducer when the combined treatment period exceeds 14 days because aripiprazole blood concentrations decline and may become suboptimal. There are no dosing recommendations for Aristada or Aristada Initio during use of a mild to moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Elagolix: (Moderate) Because aripiprazole is partially metabolized by CYP3A4, caution is advisable during coadministration of a CYP3A4 inducer, such as elagolix. If these agents are used in combination, the patient should be carefully monitored for a decrease in aripiprazole efficacy. A dose adjustment of aripiprazole may be needed. Avoid concurrent use of Abilify Maintena with a CYP3A4 inducer when the combined treatment period exceeds 14 days because aripiprazole blood concentrations decline and may become suboptimal. There are no dosing recommendations for Aristada or Aristada Initio during use of a mild to moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Moderate) Because aripiprazole is partially metabolized by CYP3A4, caution is advisable during coadministration of a CYP3A4 inducer, such as elagolix. If these agents are used in combination, the patient should be carefully monitored for a decrease in aripiprazole efficacy. A dose adjustment of aripiprazole may be needed. Avoid concurrent use of Abilify Maintena with a CYP3A4 inducer when the combined treatment period exceeds 14 days because aripiprazole blood concentrations decline and may become suboptimal. There are no dosing recommendations for Aristada or Aristada Initio during use of a mild to moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Elbasvir; Grazoprevir: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of grazoprevir. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus grazoprevir may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; grazoprevir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Elexacaftor; tezacaftor; ivacaftor: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of ivacaftor. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus ivacaftor may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; ivacaftor is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Eliglustat: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of eliglustat. Patients receiving both a CYP3A inhibitor plus eliglustat may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form and CYP3A inhibitor strength. See prescribing information for details. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects and may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and TdP in some patients. Aripiprazole is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; eliglustat is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor; both medications have been associated with QT interval prolongation.
Elinzanetant: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of elinzanetant. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus elinzanetant may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; elinzanetant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and cobicistat vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer a quarter of the usual dose. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 200 mg/month or from 300 mg to 160 mg/month. For extended-release aripiprazole injections given once every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), reduce the dosage from 960 mg to 720 mg; avoid use in patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; cobicistat is a weak CYP2D6 and strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and cobicistat vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), reduce the dose to the next lowest strength; no dosage adjustment is required for patients tolerating 441 mg. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada) in patients who are known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6, reduce the dose to 441 mg; no dosage adjustment is necessary for patients already tolerating 441 mg. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; cobicistat is a weak CYP2D6 and strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and cobicistat vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer a quarter of the usual dose. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 200 mg/month or from 300 mg to 160 mg/month. For extended-release aripiprazole injections given once every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), reduce the dosage from 960 mg to 720 mg; avoid use in patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; cobicistat is a weak CYP2D6 and strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and cobicistat vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), reduce the dose to the next lowest strength; no dosage adjustment is required for patients tolerating 441 mg. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada) in patients who are known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6, reduce the dose to 441 mg; no dosage adjustment is necessary for patients already tolerating 441 mg. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; cobicistat is a weak CYP2D6 and strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Empagliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and SGLT2 inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and SGLT2 inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and metformin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and SGLT2 inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Empagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and metformin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and SGLT2 inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and rilpivirine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and rilpivirine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose.
Enalapril, Enalaprilat: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Enasidenib: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of enasidenib. Patients receiving both a CYP3A inhibitor plus enasidenib may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form and CYP3A inhibitor strength. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; enasidenib is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Encorafenib: (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and encorafenib vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, double the usual dose over 1 to 2 weeks. For extended-release aripiprazole injections administered monthly (Abilify Maintena) and every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), avoid concomitant use. Concomitant use may decrease aripiprazole exposure and reduce efficacy. Aripiprazole is CYP3A substrate; and encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer. (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and encorafenib vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), increase the 441 mg dose to 662 mg; no adjustments are necessary for other dosages. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Concomitant use may decrease aripiprazole exposure and reduce efficacy. Aripiprazole is CYP3A substrate and encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Ensitrelvir: (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and ensitrelvir vary by aripiprazole dosage form and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer half of the usual dose; administer a quarter of the usual dose to patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 300 mg/month or from 300 mg to 200 mg/month; administer 200 mg/month to patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For extended-release aripiprazole injections given once every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), reduce the dosage from 960 mg to 720 mg; avoid use in patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and ensitrelvir vary by aripiprazole dosage form and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), reduce the dose to the next lowest strength; no dosage adjustment is required for patients tolerating 441 mg. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada) in patients who are known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6, reduce the dose to 441 mg; no dosage adjustment is necessary for patients already tolerating 441 mg. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Entacapone: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or COMT inhibitor during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with COMT inhibitors and other Parkinson's treatments than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Entrectinib: (Major) Concomitant use of entrectinib and aripiprazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and enzalutamide vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, double the usual dose over 1 to 2 weeks. For extended-release aripiprazole injections administered monthly (Abilify Maintena) and every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), avoid concomitant use. Concomitant use may decrease aripiprazole exposure and reduce efficacy. Aripiprazole is CYP3A substrate; enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and enzalutamide vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), increase the 441 mg dose to 662 mg; no adjustments are necessary for other dosages. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Concomitant use may decrease aripiprazole exposure and reduce efficacy. Aripiprazole is CYP3A substrate; enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Eplerenone: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Epoprostenol: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
eriBULin: (Major) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ertugliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and SGLT2 inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Ertugliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and metformin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and SGLT2 inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Ertugliflozin; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and SGLT2 inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Erythromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use aripiprazole and erythromycin, if possible, especially in patients with risk factors for torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary, patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus erythromycin may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Concomitant use increases the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and TdP and may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate, erythromycin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT interval prolongation.
Escitalopram: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of escitalopram. Patients receiving both a CYP3A inhibitor plus escitalopram may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form and CYP3A inhibitor strength. See prescribing information for details. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects and may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and TdP in some patients. Aripiprazole is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; escitalopram is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor; both medications have been associated with QT interval prolongation.
Esketamine: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and aripiprazole for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Eslicarbazepine: (Moderate) In vivo studies suggest eslicarbazepine is an inducer of CYP3A4. Coadministration of CYP3A4 substrates, such as aripiprazole, may result in decreased serum concentrations of the substrate. Monitor for decreased efficacy of aripiprazole if coadministered with eslicarbazepine. Dosage adjustments of aripirazole may be necessary. Avoid concurrent use of Abilify Maintena with a CYP3A4 inducer when the combined treatment period exceeds 14 days because aripiprazole blood concentrations decline and may become suboptimal. There are no dosing recommendations for Aristada or Aristada Initio during use of a mild to moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Esmolol: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. It may be advisable to monitor blood pressure when these medications are coadministered.
Estazolam: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of aripiprazole and benzodiazepines. Intensity of sedation and orthostatic hypotension were greater with the combination of oral aripiprazole and lorazepam compared to aripiprazole alone.
Eszopiclone: (Moderate) A reduction in the dose of eszopiclone should be considered during co-administration of other CNS depressants, such as antipsychotics, to minimize additive sedative effects. In addition, the risk of next-day psychomotor impairment is increased during co-administration of eszopiclone and other CNS depressants, which may decrease the ability to perform tasks requiring full mental alertness such as driving. Antipsychotics with a higher incidence of sedation, such as olanzapine, clozapine, quetiapine, lurasidone, chlorpromazine, and thioridazine, are more likely to interact with eszopiclone. In one evaluation, concurrent use of eszopiclone and olanzapine reduced psychomotor function as measured by the Digit Symbol Substitution Test (DSST).
Ethacrynic Acid: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Ethanol: (Major) Advise patients to avoid alcohol consumption while taking CNS depressants. Alcohol consumption may result in additive CNS depression.
Ethiodized Oil: (Major) Aripiprazole lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Etrasimod: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and aripiprazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Etravirine: (Moderate) Because aripiprazole is partially metabolized by CYP3A4, caution is advisable during use of a CYP3A4 inducer, such as etravirine. If these agents are used in combination, the patient should be carefully monitored for a decrease in aripiprazole efficacy. Avoid concurrent use of Abilify Maintena with a CYP3A4 inducer when the combined treatment period exceeds 14 days because aripiprazole blood concentrations decline and may become suboptimal. There are no dosing recommendations for Aristada or Aristada Initio during use of a mild to moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Everolimus: (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and everolimus vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer a quarter of the usual dose. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 200 mg/month or from 300 mg to 160 mg/month. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; everolimus is a weak CYP2D6 and weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Exenatide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and incretin mimetic use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Fedratinib: (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and fedratinib vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer a quarter of the usual dose. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 200 mg/month or from 300 mg to 160 mg/month. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; fedratinib is a moderate CYP2D6 and moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Felodipine: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Fenfluramine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of fenfluramine and aripiprazole. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Fenoldopam: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with aripiprazole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with aripiprazole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and aripiprazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Finerenone: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of finerenone at a dose of at least 40 mg/day. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus finerenone at a dose of at least 40 mg/day may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; finerenone at a dose of at least 40 mg/day is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Fingolimod: (Moderate) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and fingolimod may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Flecainide: (Major) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and flecainide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fluconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid use of aripiprazole with fluconazole unless the benefit outweighs the risk of QT prolongation or other side effects. Conflicting recommendations regarding concomitant use are available from the manufacturers of the drugs. According to the manufacturer of fluconazole, coadministration of drugs known to prolong the QT interval and which are CYP3A substrates, such as aripiprazole, is contraindicated in patients receiving fluconazole. The manufacturers of aripiprazole products do not contraindicate use of fluconazole, but do recommend dosage reductions in patients who are also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. Specific dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate, fluconazole is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT prolongation.
FLUoxetine: (Major) Reduce the oral aripiprazole dosage by one-half of the usual dose in patients receiving strong CYP2D6 inhibitors such as fluoxetine. Reduce the oral aripiprazole dosage to one-quarter (25%) of the usual dose with subsequent adjustments based upon clinical response in patients also receiving a CYP3A4 inhibitor, as aripiprazole is also metabolized by CYP3A4. Addtionally, aripiprazole and fluoxetine are both associated with prolongation of the QT interval; caution and close monitoring are recommended. Avoid concurrent use of Aristada Initio and fluoxetine because the dose of Aristada Initio cannot be modified. For other long-active aripiprazole injectables (e.g., Ability Maintena, Aristada), dose adjustments are recommended with strong CYP2D6 inhibitors and combined strong CYP2D6/CYP3A4 inhibitors; the recommendations are dependent on the aripiprazole IM depot dosage, the product given, and the duration of the concomitant inhibitors as specified in the product labels.
fluPHENAZine: (Major) Fluphenazine,a phenothiazine, is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, prochlorperazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation, such as aripiprazole. Co-administration of fluphenazine with atypical agents (e.g., lurasidone and others) may increase the risk of adverse effects such as drowsiness, dizziness, orthostatic hypotension, anticholinergic effects, extrapyramidal symptoms, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, or seizures. The likelihood of these pharmacodynamic interactions varies based upon the individual properties of the co-administered antipsychotic agent. Although the incidence of tardive dyskinesia from combination antipsychotic therapy has not been established and data are very limited, the risk appears to be increased during use of a conventional and atypical antipsychotic versus use of a conventional antipsychotic alone.
Flurazepam: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of aripiprazole and benzodiazepines. Intensity of sedation and orthostatic hypotension were greater with the combination of oral aripiprazole and lorazepam compared to aripiprazole alone.
fluvoxaMINE: (Major) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and fluvoxamine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients and increases aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. An aripiprazole dosage reduction is necessary; management recommendations vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer a quarter of the usual dose. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 200 mg/month or from 300 mg to 160 mg/month. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Aripiprazole is CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate, fluvoxamine is a weak CYP2D6 and moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. (Moderate) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and fluvoxamine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Food: (Major) Advise patients to avoid cannabis use while taking CNS depressants due to the risk for additive CNS depression and potential for other cognitive adverse reactions.
Fosamprenavir: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of fosamprenavir. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus fosamprenavir may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; fosamprenavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Foscarbidopa; Foslevodopa: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as atypical antipsychotics. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as atypical antipsychotics, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Foscarnet: (Major) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and foscarnet increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosfomycin (injectable): (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and aripiprazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosfomycin: (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and aripiprazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosinopril: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and phenytoin/fosphenytoin vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, double the usual dose over 1 to 2 weeks. For extended-release aripiprazole injections administered monthly (Abilify Maintena) and every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), avoid concomitant use. Concomitant use may decrease aripiprazole exposure and reduce efficacy. Aripiprazole is CYP3A substrate; phenytoin/fosphenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and phenytoin/fosphenytoin vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), increase the 441 mg dose to 662 mg; no adjustments are necessary for other dosages. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Concomitant use may decrease aripiprazole exposure and reduce efficacy. Aripiprazole is CYP3A substrate; phenytoin/fosphenytoin are strong CYP3A inducers.
Fostamatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of fostamatinib. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus fostamatinib may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; fostamatinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Fostemsavir: (Moderate) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and fostemsavir may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose.
Furosemide: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Gabapentin: (Moderate) Monitor for respiratory depression and sedation during concomitant aripiprazole and gabapentin use; consider starting gabapentin at a low dose. Concomitant use increases the risk for additive CNS depression.
Ganirelix: (Moderate) Antipsychotic-induced hyperprolactinemia results in down-regulation of the number of pituitary GnRH receptors and may interfere with the response to ganirelix, a gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) analog.
Gefitinib: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of gefitinib. Patients receiving both a CYP3A inhibitor plus gefitinib may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form and CYP3A inhibitor strength. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; gefitinib is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Gemifloxacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and gemifloxacin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Gemtuzumab Ozogamicin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and gemtuzumab ozogamicin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Gepirone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and aripiprazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Gepotidacin: (Major) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and gepotidacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase aripiprazole exposure and the risk for other adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus gepotidacin may also require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate, gepotidacin is a weak CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Gilteritinib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and gilteritinib may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Givinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of givinostat and aripiprazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase aripiprazole exposure and the risk for other adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus givinostat may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment if concomitant use is necessary. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate, givinostat is a weak CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with givinostat is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 5 times the maximum recommended dose.
Givosiran: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of givosiran. Patients receiving both a CYP3A inhibitor plus givosiran may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form and CYP3A inhibitor strength. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; givosiran is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Glasdegib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with aripiprazole due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of aripiprazole and following overdose.
Glimepiride: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and sulfonylurea use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
glipiZIDE: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and sulfonylurea use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and metformin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and sulfonylurea use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
glyBURIDE: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and sulfonylurea use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and metformin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and sulfonylurea use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Goserelin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., goserelin) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Granisetron: (Moderate) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and granisetron may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
guanFACINE: (Minor) Due to aripiprazole's antagonism at alpha 1-adrenergic receptors, the drug may enhance the hypotensive effects of alpha-blockers and other antihypertensive agents.
Halogenated Anesthetics: (Major) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Haloperidol: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of haloperidol. Patients receiving both a CYP3A inhibitor plus haloperidol may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form and CYP3A inhibitor strength. See prescribing information for details. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression, QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), and may increase aripiprazole exposure and the risk for other aripiprazole-related adverse effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; haloperidol is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor. Both medications have been associated with QT prolongation. The intravenous route may carry a higher risk for haloperidol-induced QT/QTc prolongation than other routes of administration.
Histrelin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., histrelin) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with aripiprazole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking aripiprazole Limit the use of opioid pain medications with aripiprazole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
hydrALAZINE: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
hydrALAZINE; Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with aripiprazole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking aripiprazole Limit the use of opioid pain medications with aripiprazole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with aripiprazole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking aripiprazole Limit the use of opioid pain medications with aripiprazole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
HYDROmorphone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with aripiprazole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with aripiprazole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Hydroxychloroquine: (Major) Concomitant use of hydroxychloroquine and aripiprazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
hydrOXYzine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and hydroxyzine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Also, monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Ibutilide: (Major) Concomitant use of ibutilide and aripiprazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Idelalisib: (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and idelalisib vary by aripiprazole dosage form and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer half of the usual dose; administer a quarter of the usual dose to patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 300 mg/month or from 300 mg to 200 mg/month; administer 200 mg/month to patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For extended-release aripiprazole injections given once every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), reduce the dosage from 960 mg to 720 mg; avoid use in patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; idelalisib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and idelalisib vary by aripiprazole dosage form and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), reduce the dose to the next lowest strength; no dosage adjustment is required for patients tolerating 441 mg. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada) in patients who are known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6, reduce the dose to 441 mg; no dosage adjustment is necessary for patients already tolerating 441 mg. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; idelalisib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Iloperidone: (Major) QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of aripiprazole and following overdose. Iloperidone is an atypical antipsychotics with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with aripiprazole. In addition, caution is advisable when aripiprazole is given in combination with other CNS depressants such as other atypical antipsychotics. The risk of drowsiness, dizziness, hypotension, extrapyramidal symptoms, anticholinergic effects, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, tardive dyskinesia, or seizures may be increased during combined use; therefore, it may be advisable to initiate treatment with lower dosages if combination therapy is deemed necessary. The likelihood of these pharmacodynamic interactions varies based upon the individual properties of the co-administered antipsychotic agent.
Iloprost: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Imatinib: (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and imatinib vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer a quarter of the usual dose. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 200 mg/month or from 300 mg to 160 mg/month. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; imatinib is a weak CYP2D6 and moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Imipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of aripiprazole and tricyclic antidepressants due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Incretin Mimetics: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and incretin mimetic use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Inotuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of inotuzumab ozogamicin with aripiprazole due to the potential for additive QT prolongation and risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). If coadministration is unavoidable, obtain an ECG and serum electrolytes prior to the start of treatment, after treatment initiation, and periodically during treatment. Inotuzumab has been associated with QT interval prolongation. QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of aripiprazole and following overdose.
Insulin Aspart: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and insulin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Insulin Aspart; Insulin Aspart Protamine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and insulin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Insulin Degludec: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and insulin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Insulin Degludec; Liraglutide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and incretin mimetic use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and insulin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Insulin Detemir: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and insulin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Insulin Glargine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and insulin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Insulin Glargine; Lixisenatide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and incretin mimetic use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and insulin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Insulin Glulisine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and insulin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Insulin Icodec: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and insulin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Insulin Lispro: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and insulin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Insulin Lispro; Insulin Lispro Protamine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and insulin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Insulin, Inhaled: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and insulin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Insulins: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and insulin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Iodixanol: (Major) Aripiprazole lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Iohexol: (Major) Aripiprazole lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Iomeprol: (Major) Aripiprazole lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Iopamidol: (Major) Aripiprazole lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Iopromide: (Major) Aripiprazole lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Ioversol: (Major) Aripiprazole lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Irbesartan: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Isavuconazonium: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of isavuconazonium. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus isavuconazonium may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; isavuconazonium is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Isocarboxazid: (Major) Avoid concomitant use, or use in rapid succession, of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) and aripiprazole. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, blood pressure, and for unusual drowsiness and sedation. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome and additive hypotension and CNS depression. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy.
Isoflurane: (Major) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Isoniazid, INH: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of isoniazid. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus isoniazid may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; isoniazid is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and insulin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Isosulfan Blue: (Major) Aripiprazole lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Isradipine: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Istradefylline: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of istradefylline. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus istradefylline may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; istradefylline is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Itraconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of aripiprazole and itraconazole due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use also increases aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. If concomitant use is necessary, an aripiprazole dosage reduction is required; management recommendations vary by aripiprazole dosage form and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer half of the usual dose; administer a quarter of the usual dose to patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 300 mg/month or from 300 mg to 200 mg/month; administer 200 mg/month to patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For extended-release aripiprazole injections given once every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), reduce the dosage from 960 mg to 720 mg; avoid use in patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Aripiprazole is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate, itraconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of aripiprazole and itraconazole due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use also increases aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. If concomitant use is necessary, an aripiprazole dosage reduction is required; management recommendations vary by aripiprazole dosage form and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), reduce the dose to the next lowest strength; no dosage adjustment is required for patients tolerating 441 mg. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada) in patients who are known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6, reduce the dose to 441 mg; no dosage adjustment is necessary for patients already tolerating 441 mg. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate, itraconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of ivacaftor. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus ivacaftor may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; ivacaftor is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Ivosidenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ivosidenib with aripiprazole due to an increased risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QTc prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct any electrolyte abnormalities as clinically appropriate. An interruption of therapy and dose reduction of ivosidenib may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Prolongation of the QTc interval and ventricular arrhythmias have been reported in patients treated with ivosidenib. QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of aripiprazole and following overdose.
Ketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of aripiprazole and ketoconazole due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use also increases aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. If concomitant use is necessary, an aripiprazole dosage reduction is required; management recommendations vary by aripiprazole dosage form and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer half of the usual dose; administer a quarter of the usual dose to patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 300 mg/month or from 300 mg to 200 mg/month; administer 200 mg/month to patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For extended-release aripiprazole injections given once every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), reduce the dosage from 960 mg to 720 mg; avoid use in patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Aripiprazole is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate, ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of aripiprazole and ketoconazole due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use also increases aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. If concomitant use is necessary, an aripiprazole dosage reduction is required; management recommendations vary by aripiprazole dosage form and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), reduce the dose to the next lowest strength; no dosage adjustment is required for patients tolerating 441 mg. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada) in patients who are known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6, reduce the dose to 441 mg; no dosage adjustment is necessary for patients already tolerating 441 mg. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate, ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Labetalol: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. It may be advisable to monitor blood pressure when these medications are coadministered.
lamoTRIgine: (Minor) Coadministration of aripiprazole and lamotrigine may slightly decrease lamotrigine plasma concentrations; however, this interaction is not expected to be clinically meaningful. During clinical trials, lamotrigine exposure was reduced approximately 10% in patients (n = 18) on a stable regimen of lamotrigine 100 mg/day to 400 mg/day who received ariprazole 10 mg/day to 30 mg/day for 7 days, followed by 30 mg/day for an additional 7 days.
Landiolol: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. It may be advisable to monitor blood pressure when these medications are coadministered.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and increases aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Additionally, an aripiprazole dosage reduction is required; management recommendations vary by aripiprazole dosage form and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer half of the usual dose; administer a quarter of the usual dose to patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 300 mg/month or from 300 mg to 200 mg/month; administer 200 mg/month to patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For extended-release aripiprazole injections given once every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), reduce the dosage from 960 mg to 720 mg; avoid use in patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Aripiprazole is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate, clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. (Major) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and increases aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Additionally, an aripiprazole dosage reduction is required; management recommendations vary by aripiprazole dosage form and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), reduce the dose to the next lowest strength; no dosage adjustment is required for patients tolerating 441 mg. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada) in patients who are known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6, reduce the dose to 441 mg; no dosage adjustment is necessary for patients already tolerating 441 mg. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Aripiprazole is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate, clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Lapatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of lapatinib. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus lapatinib may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Additionally, concomitant use may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; lapatinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Both medications have been associated with QT prolongation.
Larotrectinib: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of larotrectinib. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus larotrectinib may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; larotrectinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Lasmiditan: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lasmiditan and aripiprazole. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Lazertinib: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of lazertinib. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus lazertinib may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; lazertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Lefamulin: (Major) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and lefamulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and increases aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Additionally, monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of oral lefamulin. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus oral lefamulin may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Aripiprazole is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate, oral lefamulin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Lemborexant: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lemborexant and atypical antipsyhotics. Dosage adjustments of lemborexant and the atypical antipsychotic may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if lemborexant is taken with other CNS depressants.
Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of lenacapavir. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus lenacapavir may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Lenvatinib: (Major) Concomitant use of lenvatinib and aripiprazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Letermovir: (Moderate) Because aripiprazole is partially metabolized by CYP3A4, patients should be carefully monitored for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concurrent use of a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor such as letermovir. If these agents are used in combination, the patient should be carefully monitored for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions. In addition, because aripiprazole is also metabolized by CYP2D6, patients receiving a combination of a CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitor should have their oral aripiprazole dose reduced to one-quarter (25%) of the usual dose with subsequent adjustments based upon clinical response. Adults receiving a combination of a CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitor for more than 14 days should have their Abilify Maintena dose reduced from 400 mg/month to 200 mg/month or from 300 mg/month to 160 mg/month, respectively. There are no dosing recommendations for Aristada or Aristada Initio during use of a mild to moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. During coadministration of letermovir and cyclosporine, letermovir may exhibit more potent CYP3A4 inhibitory properties. When letermovir and cyclosporine are used concurrently with aripiprazole, consult the aripiprazole product information for dosage adjustments of aripiprazole necessary during use of a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Leuprolide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., leuprolide) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Levamlodipine: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions and hypotension during concomitant use of amlodipine. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus amlodipine may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Additionally, aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents such as amlodipine. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Levobunolol: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. It may be advisable to monitor blood pressure when these medications are coadministered.
Levocetirizine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of atypical antipsychotics and cetirizine due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Levodopa: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as atypical antipsychotics. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as atypical antipsychotics, interfere with dopamine's actions.
levoFLOXacin: (Moderate) Levofloxacin should be used cautiously with other agents that may prolong the QT interval or increase the risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). Levofloxacin has been associated with a risk of QT prolongation and TdP. Although extremely rare, TdP has been reported during postmarketing surveillance of levofloxacin. QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of aripiprazole and following overdose.
Levoketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of aripiprazole and ketoconazole due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use also increases aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. If concomitant use is necessary, an aripiprazole dosage reduction is required; management recommendations vary by aripiprazole dosage form and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer half of the usual dose; administer a quarter of the usual dose to patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 300 mg/month or from 300 mg to 200 mg/month; administer 200 mg/month to patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For extended-release aripiprazole injections given once every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), reduce the dosage from 960 mg to 720 mg; avoid use in patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Aripiprazole is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate, ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of aripiprazole and ketoconazole due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use also increases aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. If concomitant use is necessary, an aripiprazole dosage reduction is required; management recommendations vary by aripiprazole dosage form and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), reduce the dose to the next lowest strength; no dosage adjustment is required for patients tolerating 441 mg. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada) in patients who are known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6, reduce the dose to 441 mg; no dosage adjustment is necessary for patients already tolerating 441 mg. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate, ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Levorphanol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with aripiprazole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with aripiprazole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Linagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and metformin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Liraglutide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and incretin mimetic use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Lisinopril: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Lithium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and lithium may increase the risk of neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) and QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Monitor for neurotoxicity during concomitant use and consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. NMS has been observed during concurrent use of lithium and antipsychotics.
Lixisenatide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and incretin mimetic use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Lofexidine: (Moderate) Monitor ECG and for hypotension if lofexidine is coadministered with aripiprazole due to the potential for additive QT prolongation and effects on blood pressure. Due to its alpha adrenergic antagonism, aripiprazole has the potential to enhance the effect of lofexidine on blood pressure. Lofexidine may also cause additive sedation with CNS depressants, such as the atypical antipsychotics. Lofexidine prolongs the QT interval, and torsade de pointes (TdP) has been reported during postmarketing use. QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of aripiprazole and following overdose. Patients being given lofexidine in an outpatient setting should be capable of and instructed on self-monitoring for hypotension, orthostasis, bradycardia, and associated symptoms. If clinically significant or symptomatic hypotension and/or bradycardia occur, the next dose of lofexidine should be reduced in amount, delayed, or skipped.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and lonafarnib vary by aripiprazole dosage form and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer half of the usual dose; administer a quarter of the usual dose to patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 300 mg/month or from 300 mg to 200 mg/month; administer 200 mg/month to patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For extended-release aripiprazole injections given once every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), reduce the dosage from 960 mg to 720 mg; avoid use in patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and lonafarnib vary by aripiprazole dosage form and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), reduce the dose to the next lowest strength; no dosage adjustment is required for patients tolerating 441 mg. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada) in patients who are known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6, reduce the dose to 441 mg; no dosage adjustment is necessary for patients already tolerating 441 mg. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Loop diuretics: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Loperamide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of loperamide and aripiprazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of loperamide and aripiprazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Concomitant use of lopinavir and aripiprazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and ritonavir vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer a quarter of the usual dose. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 200 mg/month or from 300 mg to 160 mg/month. For extended-release aripiprazole injections given once every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), reduce the dosage from 960 mg to 720 mg; avoid use in patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; ritonavir is a weak CYP2D6 and strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and ritonavir vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), reduce the dose to the next lowest strength; no dosage adjustment is required for patients tolerating 441 mg. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada) in patients who are known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6, reduce the dose to 441 mg; no dosage adjustment is necessary for patients already tolerating 441 mg. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; ritonavir is a weak CYP2D6 and strong CYP3A inhibitor.
LORazepam: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of aripiprazole and benzodiazepines. Intensity of sedation and orthostatic hypotension were greater with the combination of oral aripiprazole and lorazepam compared to aripiprazole alone.
Losartan: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Loxapine: (Major) Caution is advisable during concurrent use of aripiprazole with other CNS depressants such as loxapine. The risk of drowsiness, dizziness, hypotension, extrapyramidal symptoms, anticholinergic effects, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, or seizures may be increased during combined use; therefore, it may be advisable to initiate treatment with lower dosages if combination therapy is deemed necessary. Although the incidence of tardive dyskinesia from combination antipsychotic therapy has not been established and data are very limited, the risk appears to be increased during use of a conventional and atypical antipsychotic versus use of a conventional antipsychotic alone.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and lumacaftor; ivacaftor vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, double the usual dose over 1 to 2 weeks. For extended-release aripiprazole injections administered monthly (Abilify Maintena) and every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), avoid concomitant use. Concomitant use may decrease aripiprazole exposure and reduce efficacy. Aripiprazole is CYP3A substrate; lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and lumacaftor; ivacaftor vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), increase the 441 mg dose to 662 mg; no adjustments are necessary for other dosages. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Concomitant use may decrease aripiprazole exposure and reduce efficacy. Aripiprazole is CYP3A substrate; lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of ivacaftor. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus ivacaftor may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; ivacaftor is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and lumacaftor; ivacaftor vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, double the usual dose over 1 to 2 weeks. For extended-release aripiprazole injections administered monthly (Abilify Maintena) and every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), avoid concomitant use. Concomitant use may decrease aripiprazole exposure and reduce efficacy. Aripiprazole is CYP3A substrate; lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and lumacaftor; ivacaftor vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), increase the 441 mg dose to 662 mg; no adjustments are necessary for other dosages. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Concomitant use may decrease aripiprazole exposure and reduce efficacy. Aripiprazole is CYP3A substrate; lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Lumateperone: (Moderate) Coadministration of antipsychotics, such as lumateperone and aripiprazole, may increase the risk of adverse effects such as drowsiness, dizziness, orthostatic hypotension, anticholinergic effects, extrapyramidal symptoms, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, or seizures. Although the incidence of tardive dyskinesia from antipsychotic combinations has not been established and data are very limited, the risk may be increased during combined use versus use of an antipsychotic alone.
Lurasidone: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects including excessive sedation, somnolence, dizziness, orthostatic hypotension, extrapyramidal symptoms, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, and seizures during coadministration of lurasidone and aripiprazole. The risk of these adverse effects may be increased during concurrent use. Lower dosages may be necessary if combination therapy is deemed necessary.
Macimorelin: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as aripiprazole. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of aripiprazole and following overdose.
Maribavir: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of maribavir. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus maribavir may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; maribavir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Mavorixafor: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and aripiprazole may increase aripiprazole exposure and the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and mavorixafor vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer a quarter of the usual dose. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 200 mg/month or from 300 mg to 160 mg/month. For extended-release aripiprazole injections given once every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), reduce the dosage from 960 mg to 720 mg. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Aripiprazole is CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate, mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 and weak CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose. (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and aripiprazole may increase aripiprazole exposure and the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and mavorixafor vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), reduce the dose to the next lowest strength; no dosage adjustment is required for patients tolerating 441 mg or for patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Aripiprazole is CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate, mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 and weak CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Mecamylamine: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Meclizine: (Moderate) Due to the primary CNS effects of aripiprazole, caution should be used when aripiprazole is given in combination with other centrally-acting medications including sedating H1-blockers. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may occur.
Mefloquine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and mefloquine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Meglitinides: (Moderate) Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus and cause metabolic changes such as hyperglycemia. Monitor patients on antidiabetic agents for worsening glycemic control. The atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Aggravation of diabetes mellitus has been reported. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with aripiprazole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with aripiprazole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Meprobamate: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including antipsychotics.
metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and metformin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
metFORMIN; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and metformin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
metFORMIN; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and metformin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Methadone: (Major) Aripiprazole should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with methadone due to the potential for increased risk of QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and additive CNS depressant effects. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression and QT prolongation. QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of aripiprazole and following overdose. Methadone is considered to be associated with an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), especially at higher doses (> 200 mg/day but averaging approximately 400 mg/day in adult patients). Laboratory studies, both in vivo and in vitro, have demonstrated that methadone inhibits cardiac potassium channels and prolongs the QT interval. Most cases involve patients being treated for pain with large, multiple daily doses of methadone, although cases have been reported in patients receiving doses commonly used for maintenance treatment of opioid addiction.
Methohexital: (Major) Because aripiprazole is metabolized by CYP3A4, the manufacturer recommends that the oral aripiprazole dose be doubled over 1 to 2 weeks when strong CYP3A4 inducers, such as barbiturates, are added to aripiprazole therapy. If these agents are used in combination, the patient should be carefully monitored for a decrease in aripiprazole efficacy. When the CYP3A4 inducer is withdrawn from the combination therapy, the aripiprazole dose in adults should be reduced over 1 to 2 weeks to the original level. Avoid concurrent use of Abilify Maintena with a CYP3A4 inducer when the combined treatment period exceeds 14 days because aripiprazole blood concentrations decline and may become suboptimal. In adults receiving 662 mg, 882 mg, or 1,064 mg of Aristada and receiving a strong CYP3A4 inducer, no dosage adjustment is necessary; however, the 441 mg dose should be increased to 662 mg if the CYP inducer is added for more than 2 weeks. Avoid concurrent use of Aristada Initio and strong CYP3A4 inducers. Additive CNS effects are possible, including drowsiness or dizziness. Patients should report any unusual changes in moods or behaviors while taking this combination.
Methyldopa: (Minor) Due to aripiprazole's antagonism at alpha 1-adrenergic receptors, the drug may enhance the hypotensive effects of alpha-blockers and other antihypertensive agents.
Metoclopramide: (Contraindicated) Avoid metoclopramide in patients receiving atypical antipsychotics. There is a potential for additive effects, including increased frequency and severity of tardive dyskinesia (TD), other extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS), and neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS). Some manufacturer labels for metoclopramide contraindicate the use of these drugs together, while others state avoidance is necessary. If these agents must be used together, monitor closely for movement disorders and additive CNS effects. There also may be additive sedation. Discontinue these medications at the first signs of dyskinesia.
metOLazone: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Metoprolol: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. It may be advisable to monitor blood pressure when these medications are coadministered.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. It may be advisable to monitor blood pressure when these medications are coadministered.
metroNIDAZOLE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and aripiprazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Midazolam: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of aripiprazole and benzodiazepines. Intensity of sedation and orthostatic hypotension were greater with the combination of oral aripiprazole and lorazepam compared to aripiprazole alone.
Midostaurin: (Major) Concomitant use of midostaurin and aripiprazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and mifepristone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and increases aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Additionally, an aripiprazole dosage reduction is required; management recommendations vary by aripiprazole dosage form and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer half of the usual dose; administer a quarter of the usual dose to patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 300 mg/month or from 300 mg to 200 mg/month; administer 200 mg/month to patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For extended-release aripiprazole injections given once every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), reduce the dosage from 960 mg to 720 mg; avoid use in patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Aripiprazole is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate, mifepristone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. (Major) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and mifepristone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and increases aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Additionally, an aripiprazole dosage reduction is required; management recommendations vary by aripiprazole dosage form and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), reduce the dose to the next lowest strength; no dosage adjustment is required for patients tolerating 441 mg. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada) in patients who are known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6, reduce the dose to 441 mg; no dosage adjustment is necessary for patients already tolerating 441 mg. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Aripiprazole is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate, mifepristone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Miglitol: (Moderate) Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus and cause metabolic changes such as hyperglycemia. Monitor patients on antidiabetic agents for worsening glycemic control. The atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Aggravation of diabetes mellitus has been reported. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Minoxidil: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Mirabegron: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of mirabegron. Patients receiving both a CYP3A inhibitor plus mirabegron may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form and CYP3A inhibitor strength. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; mirabegron is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Mirtazapine: (Moderate) There may be an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) during concurrent use of mirtazapine and aripiprazole. Coadminister with caution. QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of aripiprazole and following overdose. Cases of QT prolongation, TdP, ventricular tachycardia, and sudden death have been reported during postmarketing use of mirtazapine, primarily following overdose or in patients with other risk factors for QT prolongation, including concomitant use of other medications associated with QT prolongation.
Mitotane: (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and mitotane vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, double the usual dose over 1 to 2 weeks. For extended-release aripiprazole injections administered monthly (Abilify Maintena) and every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), avoid concomitant use. Concomitant use may decrease aripiprazole exposure and reduce efficacy. Aripiprazole is CYP3A substrate; mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and mitotane vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), increase the 441 mg dose to 662 mg; no adjustments are necessary for other dosages. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Concomitant use may decrease aripiprazole exposure and reduce efficacy. Aripiprazole is CYP3A substrate; mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Mobocertinib: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and aripiprazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Modafinil: (Moderate) Because aripiprazole is metabolized by CYP3A4, concurrent use of CYP3A4 inducers such as modafinil may result in decreased plasma concentrations of aripiprazole. If these agents are used in combination, the patient should be carefully monitored for a decrease in aripiprazole efficacy. An increase in aripiprazole dosage may be clinically warranted in some patients. Avoid concurrent use of Abilify Maintena with a CYP3A4 inducer when the combined treatment period exceeds 14 days because aripiprazole blood concentrations decline and may become suboptimal. There are no dosing recommendations for Aristada or Aristada Initio during use of a mild to moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Moexipril: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Molindone: (Major) Close monitoring is advisable during concurrent use of molindone with other antipsychotics. Because molindone shares certain pharmacological properties with other antipsychotics, additive cardiac effects (e.g., hypotension), CNS effects (e.g., drowsiness), or anticholinergic effects (e.g., constipation, xerostomia) may occur. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: (Major) Avoid concomitant use, or use in rapid succession, of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) and aripiprazole. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, blood pressure, and for unusual drowsiness and sedation. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome and additive hypotension and CNS depression. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy.
Morphine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with aripiprazole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with aripiprazole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Moxifloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and moxifloxacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Nadolol: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. It may be advisable to monitor blood pressure when these medications are coadministered.
Nafarelin: (Moderate) Antipsychotics may cause hyperprolactinemia and should not be administered concomitantly with nafarelin since hyperprolactinemia down-regulates the number of pituitary GnRH receptors.
Nalbuphine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lumateperone and nalbuphine. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Nateglinide: (Moderate) Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus and cause metabolic changes such as hyperglycemia. Monitor patients on antidiabetic agents for worsening glycemic control. The atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Aggravation of diabetes mellitus has been reported. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Nebivolol: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. It may be advisable to monitor blood pressure when these medications are coadministered.
Nefazodone: (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and nefazodone vary by aripiprazole dosage form and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer half of the usual dose; administer a quarter of the usual dose to patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 300 mg/month or from 300 mg to 200 mg/month; administer 200 mg/month to patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For extended-release aripiprazole injections given once every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), reduce the dosage from 960 mg to 720 mg; avoid use in patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; nefazodone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and nefazodone vary by aripiprazole dosage form and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), reduce the dose to the next lowest strength; no dosage adjustment is required for patients tolerating 441 mg. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada) in patients who are known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6, reduce the dose to 441 mg; no dosage adjustment is necessary for patients already tolerating 441 mg. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; nefazodone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Nelfinavir: (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and nelfinavir vary by aripiprazole dosage form and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer half of the usual dose; administer a quarter of the usual dose to patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 300 mg/month or from 300 mg to 200 mg/month; administer 200 mg/month to patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For extended-release aripiprazole injections given once every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), reduce the dosage from 960 mg to 720 mg; avoid use in patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; nelfinavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and nelfinavir vary by aripiprazole dosage form and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), reduce the dose to the next lowest strength; no dosage adjustment is required for patients tolerating 441 mg. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada) in patients who are known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6, reduce the dose to 441 mg; no dosage adjustment is necessary for patients already tolerating 441 mg. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; nelfinavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Netupitant, Fosnetupitant; Palonosetron: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of netupitant. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus netupitant may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; netupitant is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Nevirapine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of aripiprazole if coadministration with nevirapine is necessary; a dose adjustment may be needed. Concomitant use may decrease aripiprazole exposure. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A substrate and nevirapine is a weak CYP3A inducer.
NiCARdipine: (Major) Because aripiprazole is metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6, the manufacturer recommends that the oral aripiprazole dose be reduced to one-quarter (25%) of the usual dose in patients receiving inhibitors of both CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 such as nicardipine. Adult patients receiving a combination of a CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitor for more than 14 days should have their Abilify Maintena dose reduced from 400 mg/month to 200 mg/month or from 300 mg/month to 160 mg/month, respectively. If these agents are used in combination, the patient should be carefully monitored for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions. There are no dosing recommendations for Aristada or Aristada Initio during use of a mild to moderate CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitor. Lastly, aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents such as nicardipine.
NIFEdipine: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Nilotinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use aripiprazole and nilotinib, if possible, especially in patients with risk factors for torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary, patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus nilotinib may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Concomitant use increases the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and TdP and may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate, nilotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT interval prolongation.
Niraparib; Abiraterone: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of abiraterone. Patients receiving both a CYP3A inhibitor plus abiraterone may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form and CYP3A inhibitor strength. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; abiraterone is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and ritonavir vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer a quarter of the usual dose. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 200 mg/month or from 300 mg to 160 mg/month. For extended-release aripiprazole injections given once every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), reduce the dosage from 960 mg to 720 mg; avoid use in patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; ritonavir is a weak CYP2D6 and strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and ritonavir vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), reduce the dose to the next lowest strength; no dosage adjustment is required for patients tolerating 441 mg. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada) in patients who are known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6, reduce the dose to 441 mg; no dosage adjustment is necessary for patients already tolerating 441 mg. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; ritonavir is a weak CYP2D6 and strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Nirogacestat: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of nirogacestat. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus nirogacestat may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; nirogacestat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Nisoldipine: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Nitroprusside: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Non-Ionic Contrast Media: (Major) Aripiprazole lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Nortriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of aripiprazole and tricyclic antidepressants due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Ofloxacin: (Moderate) Ofloxacin should be used cautiously with other agents, such as aripiprazole, that may prolong the QT interval or increase the risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of aripiprazole and following overdose. Quinolones have been associated with a risk of QT prolongation and TdP. Although extremely rare, TdP has been reported during postmarketing surveillance of ofloxacin. These reports generally involved patients with concurrent medical conditions or concomitant medications that may have been contributory.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Coadministration may result in additive effects on the QT interval. Both aripiprazole and olanzapine have been associated with QT prolongation. In addition, the risk of drowsiness, dizziness, hypotension, extrapyramidal symptoms, anticholinergic effects, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, tardive dyskinesia, or seizures may be increased during combined use; therefore, it may be advisable to initiate treatment with lower dosages if combination therapy is deemed necessary.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Major) Reduce the oral aripiprazole dosage by one-half of the usual dose in patients receiving strong CYP2D6 inhibitors such as fluoxetine. Reduce the oral aripiprazole dosage to one-quarter (25%) of the usual dose with subsequent adjustments based upon clinical response in patients also receiving a CYP3A4 inhibitor, as aripiprazole is also metabolized by CYP3A4. Addtionally, aripiprazole and fluoxetine are both associated with prolongation of the QT interval; caution and close monitoring are recommended. Avoid concurrent use of Aristada Initio and fluoxetine because the dose of Aristada Initio cannot be modified. For other long-active aripiprazole injectables (e.g., Ability Maintena, Aristada), dose adjustments are recommended with strong CYP2D6 inhibitors and combined strong CYP2D6/CYP3A4 inhibitors; the recommendations are dependent on the aripiprazole IM depot dosage, the product given, and the duration of the concomitant inhibitors as specified in the product labels. (Moderate) Coadministration may result in additive effects on the QT interval. Both aripiprazole and olanzapine have been associated with QT prolongation. In addition, the risk of drowsiness, dizziness, hypotension, extrapyramidal symptoms, anticholinergic effects, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, tardive dyskinesia, or seizures may be increased during combined use; therefore, it may be advisable to initiate treatment with lower dosages if combination therapy is deemed necessary.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Coadministration may result in additive effects on the QT interval. Both aripiprazole and olanzapine have been associated with QT prolongation. In addition, the risk of drowsiness, dizziness, hypotension, extrapyramidal symptoms, anticholinergic effects, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, tardive dyskinesia, or seizures may be increased during combined use; therefore, it may be advisable to initiate treatment with lower dosages if combination therapy is deemed necessary.
Oliceridine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of oliceridine with aripiprazole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of oliceridine with aripiprazole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Olmesartan: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions and hypotension during concomitant use of amlodipine. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus amlodipine may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Additionally, aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents such as amlodipine. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Moderate) Because aripiprazole is partially metabolized by CYP3A4, caution is advisable during coadministration of a CYP3A4 inducer, such as rifabutin. If these agents are used in combination, the patient should be carefully monitored for a decrease in aripiprazole efficacy. A dose adjustment of aripiprazole may be needed. Avoid concurrent use of Abilify Maintena with a CYP3A4 inducer when the combined treatment period exceeds 14 days because aripiprazole blood concentrations decline and may become suboptimal. There are no dosing recommendations for Aristada or Aristada Initio during use of a mild to moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Ondansetron: (Major) If ondansetron and aripiprazole must be coadministered, ECG monitoring is recommended. Ondansetron has been associated with a dose-related increase in the QT interval and postmarketing reports of torsade de pointes (TdP). QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of aripiprazole and following overdose.
Opicapone: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or COMT inhibitor during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with COMT inhibitors and other Parkinson's treatments than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Orforglipron: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and incretin mimetic use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Oritavancin: (Moderate) Aripiprazole is metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6; oritavancin is a weak CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inducer. Plasma concentrations and efficacy of aripiprazole may be reduced if these drugs are administered concurrently. An increase in aripiprazole dosage may be clinically warranted in some patients. Avoid concurrent use of Abilify Maintena with a CYP3A4 inducer when the combined treatment period exceeds 14 days because aripiprazole blood concentrations decline and may become suboptimal. There are no dosing recommendations for Aristada or Aristada Initio during use of a mild to moderate CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inducer.
Osilodrostat: (Major) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and osilodrostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients and increases aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. An aripiprazole dosage reduction is necessary; management recommendations vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer a quarter of the usual dose. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 200 mg/month or from 300 mg to 160 mg/month. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Aripiprazole is CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate, osilodrostat is a weak CYP2D6 and CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. (Moderate) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and osilodrostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Osimertinib: (Major) Concomitant use of osimertinib and aripiprazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Oxaliplatin: (Major) Concomitant use of oxaliplatin and aripiprazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Oxazepam: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of aripiprazole and benzodiazepines. Intensity of sedation and orthostatic hypotension were greater with the combination of oral aripiprazole and lorazepam compared to aripiprazole alone.
OXcarbazepine: (Moderate) Because aripiprazole is partially metabolized by CYP3A4, caution is advisable during use of a CYP3A4 inducer such as oxcarbazepine. If these agents are used in combination, the patient should be carefully monitored for a decrease in aripiprazole efficacy. A dose adjustment of aripiprazole may be needed. Avoid concurrent use of Abilify Maintena with a CYP3A4 inducer when the combined treatment period exceeds 14 days because aripiprazole blood concentrations decline and may become suboptimal. There are no dosing recommendations for Aristada or Aristada Initio during use of a mild to moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with aripiprazole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with aripiprazole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
oxyMORphone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with aripiprazole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with aripiprazole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Ozanimod: (Major) In general, do not initiate ozanimod in patients taking aripiprazole due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ozanimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ozanimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of aripiprazole and following overdose.
Pacritinib: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and aripiprazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Palbociclib: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of palbociclib. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus palbociclib may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; palbociclib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Paliperidone: (Major) Paliperidone has been associated with QT prolongation; torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular fibrillation have been reported in the setting of overdose. According to the manufacturer, since paliperidone may prolong the QT interval, it should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have this effect. QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of aripiprazole and following overdose. If coadministration is considered necessary and the patient has known risk factors for cardiac disease or arrhythmias, close monitoring is essential. In addition, the risk of drowsiness, dizziness, hypotension, extrapyramidal symptoms, anticholinergic effects, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, tardive dyskinesia, or seizures may be increased during combined use of antipsychotics; therefore, it may be advisable to initiate treatment with lower dosages if combination therapy is necessary.
Panobinostat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of aripiprazole and panobinostat, if possible, especially in patients with risk factors for torsade de pointes (TdP). If use is necessary in patients who are receiving both a CYP3A inhibitor plus panobinostat, an aripiprazole dosage reduction may be required. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form and CYP3A inhibitor strength. See prescribing information for details. Additionally, monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse effects and consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for QT prolongation and TdP. Aripiprazole is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate, panobinostat is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT prolongation.
PARoxetine: (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and paroxetine vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer half of the usual dose. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 300 mg/month or from 300 mg to 200 mg/month. For extended-release aripiprazole injections given once every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), reduce the dosage from 960 mg to 720 mg. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP3A inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; paroxetine is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and paroxetine vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), reduce the dose to the next lowest strength; no dosage adjustment is required for patients tolerating 441 mg or for patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP3A inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; paroxetine is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Pasireotide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and pasireotide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and pazopanib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and increases aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Additionally, an aripiprazole dosage reduction is required; management recommendations vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer a quarter of the usual dose. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 200 mg/month or from 300 mg to 160 mg/month. Aripiprazole is CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate, pazopanib is a weak CYP2D6 and CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. (Major) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and pazopanib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Peginterferon Alfa-2b: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of peginterferon alfa-2b. Patients receiving both a CYP3A inhibitor plus peginterferon alfa-2b may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form and CYP3A inhibitor strength. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; peginterferon alfa-2b is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Pentamidine: (Major) Concomitant use of pentamidine and aripiprazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Pentazocine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Coadministration of pentazocine with atypical antipsychotics may result in additive respiratory and CNS depression and anticholinergic effects, such as urinary retention and constipation. Use pentazocine with caution in any patient receiving medication with CNS depressant and/or anticholinergic activity.
PENTobarbital: (Major) Because aripiprazole is metabolized by CYP3A4, the manufacturer recommends that the oral aripiprazole dose be doubled over 1 to 2 weeks when strong CYP3A4 inducers, such as barbiturates, are added to aripiprazole therapy. If these agents are used in combination, the patient should be carefully monitored for a decrease in aripiprazole efficacy. When the CYP3A4 inducer is withdrawn from the combination therapy, the aripiprazole dose in adults should be reduced over 1 to 2 weeks to the original level. Avoid concurrent use of Abilify Maintena with a CYP3A4 inducer when the combined treatment period exceeds 14 days because aripiprazole blood concentrations decline and may become suboptimal. In adults receiving 662 mg, 882 mg, or 1,064 mg of Aristada and receiving a strong CYP3A4 inducer, no dosage adjustment is necessary; however, the 441 mg dose should be increased to 662 mg if the CYP inducer is added for more than 2 weeks. Avoid concurrent use of Aristada Initio and strong CYP3A4 inducers. Additive CNS effects are possible, including drowsiness or dizziness. Patients should report any unusual changes in moods or behaviors while taking this combination.
Perindopril: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions and hypotension during concomitant use of amlodipine. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus amlodipine may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Additionally, aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents such as amlodipine. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Perphenazine: (Major) Coadministration may result in additive effects on the QT interval. Both perphenazine and aripiprazole have been associated with QT prolongation; concurrent use may increase this risk. Additionally, increased aripiprazole blood levels may occur when it is coadministered with an inhibitor of CYP2D6, such as perphenazine. If these agents are used in combination, the patient should be carefully monitored for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions. In addition, because aripiprazole is also metabolized by CYP3A4, patients receiving a combination of a CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitor should have their oral aripiprazole dose reduced to one-quarter (25%) of the usual dose with subsequent adjustments based upon clinical response. Adults receiving a combination of a CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitor for more than 14 days should have their Abilify Maintena dose reduced from 400 mg/month to 200 mg/month or from 300 mg/month to 160 mg/month, respectively. There are no dosing recommendations for Aristada or Aristada Initio during use of a mild to moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor. Coadministration of perphenazine with atypical agents may increase the risk of adverse effects such as drowsiness, dizziness, orthostatic hypotension, anticholinergic effects, extrapyramidal symptoms, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, or seizures. The likelihood of these pharmacodynamic interactions varies based upon the individual properties of the co-administered antipsychotic agent. Although the incidence of tardive dyskinesia from combination antipsychotic therapy has not been established and data are very limited, the risk appears to be increased during use of a conventional and atypical antipsychotic versus use of a conventional antipsychotic alone.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Major) Coadministration may result in additive effects on the QT interval. Both perphenazine and aripiprazole have been associated with QT prolongation; concurrent use may increase this risk. Additionally, increased aripiprazole blood levels may occur when it is coadministered with an inhibitor of CYP2D6, such as perphenazine. If these agents are used in combination, the patient should be carefully monitored for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions. In addition, because aripiprazole is also metabolized by CYP3A4, patients receiving a combination of a CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitor should have their oral aripiprazole dose reduced to one-quarter (25%) of the usual dose with subsequent adjustments based upon clinical response. Adults receiving a combination of a CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitor for more than 14 days should have their Abilify Maintena dose reduced from 400 mg/month to 200 mg/month or from 300 mg/month to 160 mg/month, respectively. There are no dosing recommendations for Aristada or Aristada Initio during use of a mild to moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor. Coadministration of perphenazine with atypical agents may increase the risk of adverse effects such as drowsiness, dizziness, orthostatic hypotension, anticholinergic effects, extrapyramidal symptoms, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, or seizures. The likelihood of these pharmacodynamic interactions varies based upon the individual properties of the co-administered antipsychotic agent. Although the incidence of tardive dyskinesia from combination antipsychotic therapy has not been established and data are very limited, the risk appears to be increased during use of a conventional and atypical antipsychotic versus use of a conventional antipsychotic alone. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of aripiprazole and tricyclic antidepressants due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Phenelzine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use, or use in rapid succession, of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) and aripiprazole. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, blood pressure, and for unusual drowsiness and sedation. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome and additive hypotension and CNS depression. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Because aripiprazole is metabolized by CYP3A4, the manufacturer recommends that the oral aripiprazole dose be doubled over 1 to 2 weeks when strong CYP3A4 inducers, such as barbiturates, are added to aripiprazole therapy. If these agents are used in combination, the patient should be carefully monitored for a decrease in aripiprazole efficacy. When the CYP3A4 inducer is withdrawn from the combination therapy, the aripiprazole dose in adults should be reduced over 1 to 2 weeks to the original level. Avoid concurrent use of Abilify Maintena with a CYP3A4 inducer when the combined treatment period exceeds 14 days because aripiprazole blood concentrations decline and may become suboptimal. In adults receiving 662 mg, 882 mg, or 1,064 mg of Aristada and receiving a strong CYP3A4 inducer, no dosage adjustment is necessary; however, the 441 mg dose should be increased to 662 mg if the CYP inducer is added for more than 2 weeks. Avoid concurrent use of Aristada Initio and strong CYP3A4 inducers. Additive CNS effects are possible, including drowsiness or dizziness. Patients should report any unusual changes in moods or behaviors while taking this combination.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Because aripiprazole is metabolized by CYP3A4, the manufacturer recommends that the oral aripiprazole dose be doubled over 1 to 2 weeks when strong CYP3A4 inducers, such as barbiturates, are added to aripiprazole therapy. If these agents are used in combination, the patient should be carefully monitored for a decrease in aripiprazole efficacy. When the CYP3A4 inducer is withdrawn from the combination therapy, the aripiprazole dose in adults should be reduced over 1 to 2 weeks to the original level. Avoid concurrent use of Abilify Maintena with a CYP3A4 inducer when the combined treatment period exceeds 14 days because aripiprazole blood concentrations decline and may become suboptimal. In adults receiving 662 mg, 882 mg, or 1,064 mg of Aristada and receiving a strong CYP3A4 inducer, no dosage adjustment is necessary; however, the 441 mg dose should be increased to 662 mg if the CYP inducer is added for more than 2 weeks. Avoid concurrent use of Aristada Initio and strong CYP3A4 inducers. Additive CNS effects are possible, including drowsiness or dizziness. Patients should report any unusual changes in moods or behaviors while taking this combination.
Phenoxybenzamine: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Moderate) Monitor for unusal drowsiness and excessive sedation during concomitant aripiprazole and topiramate use due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Phentolamine: (Moderate) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Phenytoin: (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and phenytoin/fosphenytoin vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, double the usual dose over 1 to 2 weeks. For extended-release aripiprazole injections administered monthly (Abilify Maintena) and every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), avoid concomitant use. Concomitant use may decrease aripiprazole exposure and reduce efficacy. Aripiprazole is CYP3A substrate; phenytoin/fosphenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and phenytoin/fosphenytoin vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), increase the 441 mg dose to 662 mg; no adjustments are necessary for other dosages. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Concomitant use may decrease aripiprazole exposure and reduce efficacy. Aripiprazole is CYP3A substrate; phenytoin/fosphenytoin are strong CYP3A inducers.
Pimavanserin: (Major) Concomitant use of pimavanserin and aripiprazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Pimozide: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of aripiprazole and pimozide due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. If use is necessary in patients receiving both a CYP3A inhibitor plus pimozide, an aripiprazole dosage adjustment may be required. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form and CYP3A inhibitor strength. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects; use may also increase the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and TdP. Aripiprazole is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate, pimozide is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Pindolol: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. It may be advisable to monitor blood pressure when these medications are coadministered.
Pioglitazone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant aripiprazole and pioglitazone use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Pioglitazone; Glimepiride: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant aripiprazole and pioglitazone use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and sulfonylurea use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Pioglitazone; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant aripiprazole and pioglitazone use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and metformin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Pirtobrutinib: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of pirtobrutinib. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus pirtobrutinib may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; pirtobrutinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Pitolisant: (Major) Concomitant use of pitolisant and aripiprazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ponesimod: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking aripiprazole due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of aripiprazole and following overdose.
Posaconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of aripiprazole and posaconazole due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use also increases aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. If concomitant use is necessary, an aripiprazole dosage reduction is required; management recommendations vary by aripiprazole dosage form and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer half of the usual dose; administer a quarter of the usual dose to patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 300 mg/month or from 300 mg to 200 mg/month; administer 200 mg/month to patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For extended-release aripiprazole injections given once every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), reduce the dosage from 960 mg to 720 mg; avoid use in patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Aripiprazole is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate, posaconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of aripiprazole and posaconazole due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use also increases aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. If concomitant use is necessary, an aripiprazole dosage reduction is required; management recommendations vary by aripiprazole dosage form and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), reduce the dose to the next lowest strength; no dosage adjustment is required for patients tolerating 441 mg. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada) in patients who are known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6, reduce the dose to 441 mg; no dosage adjustment is necessary for patients already tolerating 441 mg. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate, posaconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Pramipexole: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or pramipexole during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and pramipexole may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Additive CNS depressant effects are also possible. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with pramipexole than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Pramlintide: (Moderate) Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus and cause metabolic changes such as hyperglycemia. Monitor patients on antidiabetic agents for worsening glycemic control. The atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Aggravation of diabetes mellitus has been reported. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Prazosin: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Pregabalin: (Moderate) Monitor for respiratory depression and sedation during concomitant aripiprazole and pregabalin use; consider starting pregabalin at a low dose. Concomitant use increases the risk for additive CNS depression.
Primaquine: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse effects and QT/QTc prolongation if concomitant use of aripiprazole and primaquine is necessary; consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus primaquine may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Aripiprazole dosing recommendations vary by aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects and increase the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and TdP. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate, primaquine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Primidone: (Major) Because aripiprazole is metabolized by CYP3A4, the manufacturer recommends that the oral aripiprazole dose be doubled over 1 to 2 weeks when strong CYP3A4 inducers, such as barbiturates, are added to aripiprazole therapy. If these agents are used in combination, the patient should be carefully monitored for a decrease in aripiprazole efficacy. When the CYP3A4 inducer is withdrawn from the combination therapy, the aripiprazole dose in adults should be reduced over 1 to 2 weeks to the original level. Avoid concurrent use of Abilify Maintena with a CYP3A4 inducer when the combined treatment period exceeds 14 days because aripiprazole blood concentrations decline and may become suboptimal. In adults receiving 662 mg, 882 mg, or 1,064 mg of Aristada and receiving a strong CYP3A4 inducer, no dosage adjustment is necessary; however, the 441 mg dose should be increased to 662 mg if the CYP inducer is added for more than 2 weeks. Avoid concurrent use of Aristada Initio and strong CYP3A4 inducers. Additive CNS effects are possible, including drowsiness or dizziness. Patients should report any unusual changes in moods or behaviors while taking this combination.
Procainamide: (Major) Concomitant use of procainamide and aripiprazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Prochlorperazine: (Major) Prochlorperazine, a phenothiazine, is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Prochlorperazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation, such as aripiprazole. Co-administration of prochlorperazine with other antipsychotics may increase the risk of adverse effects such as drowsiness, dizziness, orthostatic hypotension, anticholinergic effects, extrapyramidal symptoms, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, or seizures. The likelihood of these pharmacodynamic interactions varies based upon the individual properties of the co-administered antipsychotic agent. Although the incidence of tardive dyskinesia from combination antipsychotic therapy has not been established and data are very limited, the risk appears to be increased during use of a conventional and atypical antipsychotic versus use of a conventional antipsychotic alone.
Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and promethazine may increase the risk of CNS depression and QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Monitor for unusual drowsiness and excess sedation and consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and promethazine may increase the risk of CNS depression and QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Monitor for unusual drowsiness and excess sedation and consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and promethazine may increase the risk of CNS depression and QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Monitor for unusual drowsiness and excess sedation and consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Propafenone: (Major) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and propafenone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Concomitant use may also increase aripiprazole exposure and other aripiprazole-related adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions and consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Patients receiving both a CYP3A inhibitor plus propafenone may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form and CYP3A inhibitor strength. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects; use may also increase the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and TdP. Aripiprazole is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate, propafenone is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Propranolol: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. It may be advisable to monitor blood pressure when these medications are coadministered.
Protriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of aripiprazole and tricyclic antidepressants due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) Due to the primary CNS effects of aripiprazole, caution should be used when aripiprazole is given in combination with other centrally-acting medications including sedating H1-blockers. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may occur.
Quazepam: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of aripiprazole and benzodiazepines. Intensity of sedation and orthostatic hypotension were greater with the combination of oral aripiprazole and lorazepam compared to aripiprazole alone.
QUEtiapine: (Major) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and quetiapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and additive CNS depression. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration.
Quinapril: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
quiNIDine: (Contraindicated) Avoid use of aripiprazole with quinidine unless the benefit outweighs the risk. Quinidine is generally contraindicated with other drugs that prolong the QT interval and are metabolized by CYP2D6, such as aripiprazole, as the effects on the QT interval may be increased. Manufacturer recommendations for this combination have varied. Do not use the combination product of dextromethorphan; quinidine with aripiprazole. The manufacturers of aripiprazole products do not contraindicate use of quinidine, but recommend dosage adjustments of aripiprazole when used with potent CYP2D6 inhibitors, such as quinidine. For example, the oral aripiprazole dose should be reduced by 50%. Injectable forms of aripiprazole require dose adjustment when the potent CYP2D6 inhibitor will be used for more than 14 days. See the manufacturer prescribing information for detailed recommendations. Both aripiprazole and quinidine are associated with QT prolongation. Increased aripiprazole exposure is likely when a potent CYP2D6 inhibitor like quinidine is used concurrently. In one evaluation, concurrent use of quinidine and oral aripiprazole resulted in an increase in the AUC of aripiprazole of 112% and a decrease in the AUC of its active metabolite by 35%.
quiNINE: (Major) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and quinine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and increases aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Additionally, an aripiprazole dosage reduction is required; management recommendations vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer a quarter of the usual dose. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 200 mg/month or from 300 mg to 160 mg/month. Aripiprazole is CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate, quinine is a moderate CYP2D6 and weak CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. (Major) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and quinine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Quizartinib: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and aripiprazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ramelteon: (Moderate) Due to the primary CNS effects of aripiprazole, caution should be used when aripiprazole is given in combination with other centrally-acting medications including benzodiazepines and other anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Ramipril: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Ranolazine: (Major) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and ranolazine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients and increases aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. An aripiprazole dosage reduction is necessary; management recommendations vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer a quarter of the usual dose. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 200 mg/month or from 300 mg to 160 mg/month. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Aripiprazole is CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate, ranolazine is a moderate CYP2D6 and weak CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. (Moderate) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and ranolazine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or rasagiline during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and rasagiline may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with rasagiline than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Regular Insulin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and insulin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Regular Insulin; Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and insulin use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Relacorilant: (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and relacorilant vary by aripiprazole dosage form and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer half of the usual dose; administer a quarter of the usual dose to patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 300 mg/month or from 300 mg to 200 mg/month; administer 200 mg/month to patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For extended-release aripiprazole injections given once every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), reduce the dosage from 960 mg to 720 mg; avoid use in patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and relacorilant vary by aripiprazole dosage form and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), reduce the dose to the next lowest strength; no dosage adjustment is required for patients tolerating 441 mg. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada) in patients who are known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6, reduce the dose to 441 mg; no dosage adjustment is necessary for patients already tolerating 441 mg. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Relugolix: (Moderate) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Remdesivir: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of remdesivir. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus remdesivir may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; remdesivir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Remifentanil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with aripiprazole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with aripiprazole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Remimazolam: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of aripiprazole and benzodiazepines. Intensity of sedation and orthostatic hypotension were greater with the combination of oral aripiprazole and lorazepam compared to aripiprazole alone.
Repaglinide: (Moderate) Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus and cause metabolic changes such as hyperglycemia. Monitor patients on antidiabetic agents for worsening glycemic control. The atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Aggravation of diabetes mellitus has been reported. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Revumenib: (Major) Concomitant use of revumenib and aripiprazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ribociclib: (Major) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and ribociclib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and increases aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Additionally, an aripiprazole dosage reduction is required; management recommendations vary by aripiprazole dosage form and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer half of the usual dose; administer a quarter of the usual dose to patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 300 mg/month or from 300 mg to 200 mg/month; administer 200 mg/month to patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For extended-release aripiprazole injections given once every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), reduce the dosage from 960 mg to 720 mg; avoid use in patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Aripiprazole is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate, ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. (Major) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and ribociclib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and increases aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Additionally, an aripiprazole dosage reduction is required; management recommendations vary by aripiprazole dosage form and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), reduce the dose to the next lowest strength; no dosage adjustment is required for patients tolerating 441 mg. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada) in patients who are known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6, reduce the dose to 441 mg; no dosage adjustment is necessary for patients already tolerating 441 mg. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Aripiprazole is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate, ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and ribociclib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and increases aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Additionally, an aripiprazole dosage reduction is required; management recommendations vary by aripiprazole dosage form and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer half of the usual dose; administer a quarter of the usual dose to patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 300 mg/month or from 300 mg to 200 mg/month; administer 200 mg/month to patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For extended-release aripiprazole injections given once every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), reduce the dosage from 960 mg to 720 mg; avoid use in patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Aripiprazole is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate, ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. (Major) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and ribociclib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and increases aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Additionally, an aripiprazole dosage reduction is required; management recommendations vary by aripiprazole dosage form and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), reduce the dose to the next lowest strength; no dosage adjustment is required for patients tolerating 441 mg. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada) in patients who are known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6, reduce the dose to 441 mg; no dosage adjustment is necessary for patients already tolerating 441 mg. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Aripiprazole is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate, ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Rifabutin: (Moderate) Because aripiprazole is partially metabolized by CYP3A4, caution is advisable during coadministration of a CYP3A4 inducer, such as rifabutin. If these agents are used in combination, the patient should be carefully monitored for a decrease in aripiprazole efficacy. A dose adjustment of aripiprazole may be needed. Avoid concurrent use of Abilify Maintena with a CYP3A4 inducer when the combined treatment period exceeds 14 days because aripiprazole blood concentrations decline and may become suboptimal. There are no dosing recommendations for Aristada or Aristada Initio during use of a mild to moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
rifAMPin: (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and rifampin vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, double the usual dose over 1 to 2 weeks. For extended-release aripiprazole injections administered monthly (Abilify Maintena) and every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), avoid concomitant use. Concomitant use may decrease aripiprazole exposure and reduce efficacy. Aripiprazole is CYP3A substrate; rifampin is a strong CYP3A inducer. (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and rifampin vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), increase the 441 mg dose to 662 mg; no adjustments are necessary for other dosages. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Concomitant use may decrease aripiprazole exposure and reduce efficacy. Aripiprazole is CYP3A substrate; rifampin is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Rifapentine: (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and rifapentine vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, double the usual dose over 1 to 2 weeks. For extended-release aripiprazole injections administered monthly (Abilify Maintena) and every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), avoid concomitant use. Concomitant use may decrease aripiprazole exposure and reduce efficacy. Aripiprazole is CYP3A substrate; rifapentine is a strong CYP3A inducer. (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and rifapentine vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), increase the 441 mg dose to 662 mg; no adjustments are necessary for other dosages. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Concomitant use may decrease aripiprazole exposure and reduce efficacy. Aripiprazole is CYP3A substrate; rifapentine is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and rilpivirine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose.
Rilzabrutinib: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of rilzabrutinib. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus rilzabrutinib may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Use risperidone and aripiprazole together with caution due to the potential for additive QT prolongation and risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). In addition, coadministration may increase the risk of adverse effects such as drowsiness, dizziness, orthostatic hypotension, anticholinergic effects, extrapyramidal symptoms, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, or seizures. Risperidone has been associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and/or TdP, primarily in the overdose setting. QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of aripiprazole and following overdose.
Ritlecitinib: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of ritlecitinib. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus ritlecitinib may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Ritonavir: (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and ritonavir vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer a quarter of the usual dose. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 200 mg/month or from 300 mg to 160 mg/month. For extended-release aripiprazole injections given once every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), reduce the dosage from 960 mg to 720 mg; avoid use in patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; ritonavir is a weak CYP2D6 and strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and ritonavir vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), reduce the dose to the next lowest strength; no dosage adjustment is required for patients tolerating 441 mg. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada) in patients who are known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6, reduce the dose to 441 mg; no dosage adjustment is necessary for patients already tolerating 441 mg. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; ritonavir is a weak CYP2D6 and strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Rolapitant: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of rolapitant. Patients receiving both a CYP3A inhibitor plus rolapitant may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form and CYP3A inhibitor strength. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; rolapitant is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor.
romiDEPsin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and romidepsin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
rOPINIRole: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or ropinirole during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and ropinirole may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with ropinirole than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Rotigotine: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, excess sedation, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or rotigotine during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and rotigotine may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Additive CNS depressant effects are also possible. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with rotigotine than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Rucaparib: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of rucaparib. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus rucaparib may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; rucaparib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Sacubitril; Valsartan: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Safinamide: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or safinamide during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and safinamide may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with safinamide than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Saquinavir: (Major) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and saquinavir increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and increases aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Additionally, an aripiprazole dosage reduction is required; management recommendations vary by aripiprazole dosage form and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer half of the usual dose; administer a quarter of the usual dose to patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 300 mg/month or from 300 mg to 200 mg/month; administer 200 mg/month to patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For extended-release aripiprazole injections given once every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), reduce the dosage from 960 mg to 720 mg; avoid use in patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Aripiprazole is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate, saquinavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. (Major) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and saquinavir increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and increases aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Additionally, an aripiprazole dosage reduction is required; management recommendations vary by aripiprazole dosage form and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), reduce the dose to the next lowest strength; no dosage adjustment is required for patients tolerating 441 mg. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada) in patients who are known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6, reduce the dose to 441 mg; no dosage adjustment is necessary for patients already tolerating 441 mg. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Aripiprazole is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate, saquinavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Secobarbital: (Major) Because aripiprazole is metabolized by CYP3A4, the manufacturer recommends that the oral aripiprazole dose be doubled over 1 to 2 weeks when strong CYP3A4 inducers, such as barbiturates, are added to aripiprazole therapy. If these agents are used in combination, the patient should be carefully monitored for a decrease in aripiprazole efficacy. When the CYP3A4 inducer is withdrawn from the combination therapy, the aripiprazole dose in adults should be reduced over 1 to 2 weeks to the original level. Avoid concurrent use of Abilify Maintena with a CYP3A4 inducer when the combined treatment period exceeds 14 days because aripiprazole blood concentrations decline and may become suboptimal. In adults receiving 662 mg, 882 mg, or 1,064 mg of Aristada and receiving a strong CYP3A4 inducer, no dosage adjustment is necessary; however, the 441 mg dose should be increased to 662 mg if the CYP inducer is added for more than 2 weeks. Avoid concurrent use of Aristada Initio and strong CYP3A4 inducers. Additive CNS effects are possible, including drowsiness or dizziness. Patients should report any unusual changes in moods or behaviors while taking this combination.
Selegiline: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of selegiline efficacy, signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, and unusual drowsiness and sedation during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and selegiline use. Dopamine antagonists, such as atypical antipsychotics, may diminish the effectiveness of selegiline. Concomitant use may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome or additive CNS depression. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy.
Selpercatinib: (Major) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and selpercatinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and increases aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Additionally, monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus selpercatinib may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Aripiprazole is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate, selpercatinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Semaglutide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and incretin mimetic use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Sertraline: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of sertraline and consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Patients receiving both a CYP3A inhibitor plus sertraline may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form and CYP3A inhibitor strength. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects; use may also increase the risk for QT/QTc prolongation ad TdP. Aripiprazole is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate, sertraline is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Sevabertinib: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of sevabertinib. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus sevabertinib may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; sevabertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Sevoflurane: (Major) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
SGLT2 Inhibitors: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and SGLT2 inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Siponimod: (Major) Concomitant use of siponimod and aripiprazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
SITagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Solifenacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and solifenacin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
SORAfenib: (Major) Concomitant use of sorafenib and aripiprazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Sotagliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and SGLT2 inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Sotalol: (Major) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and sotalol increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Spironolactone: (Major) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concurrent use of spironolactone. Reduce the oral aripiprazole dosage to one-quarter (25%) of the usual dose with subsequent adjustments based upon clinical response in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. Adults receiving a combination of a CYP2D6 inhibitor and spironolactone for more than 14 days should have their Abilify Maintena dose reduced from 400 mg/month to 200 mg/month or from 300 mg/month to 160 mg/month, respectively. There are no dosing recommendations for Aristada or Aristada Initio during use of a mild to moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor alone. Aripiprazole is a substrate for CYP2D6 and CYP3A4; spironolactone is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Additionally, monitor blood pressure and adjust spironolactone dose accordingly as aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concurrent use of spironolactone. Reduce the oral aripiprazole dosage to one-quarter (25%) of the usual dose with subsequent adjustments based upon clinical response in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. Adults receiving a combination of a CYP2D6 inhibitor and spironolactone for more than 14 days should have their Abilify Maintena dose reduced from 400 mg/month to 200 mg/month or from 300 mg/month to 160 mg/month, respectively. There are no dosing recommendations for Aristada or Aristada Initio during use of a mild to moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor alone. Aripiprazole is a substrate for CYP2D6 and CYP3A4; spironolactone is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Additionally, monitor blood pressure and adjust spironolactone dose accordingly as aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and St. John's wort vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, double the usual dose over 1 to 2 weeks. For extended-release aripiprazole injections administered monthly (Abilify Maintena) and every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), avoid concomitant use. Concomitant use may decrease aripiprazole exposure and reduce efficacy. Aripiprazole is CYP3A substrate; St. John's wort is a strong CYP3A inducer. (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and St. John's wort vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), increase the 441 mg dose to 662 mg; no adjustments are necessary for other dosages. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Concomitant use may decrease aripiprazole exposure and reduce efficacy. Aripiprazole is CYP3A substrate; St. John's wort is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Stiripentol: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of stiripentol and aripiprazole. CNS depressants can potentiate the effects of stiripentol.
Streptogramins: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of quinupristin. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus quinupristin may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; quinupristin is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with aripiprazole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with aripiprazole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Sulfonylureas: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and sulfonylurea use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
SUNItinib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and sunitinib may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Suvorexant: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and atypical antipsyhotics. Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and the atypical antipsychotic may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants.
Tacrolimus: (Moderate) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and tacrolimus may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Taletrectinib: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and aripiprazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tamoxifen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and tamoxifen may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Tapentadol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with aripiprazole may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with aripiprazole to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Tasimelteon: (Moderate) Due to the primary CNS effects of aripiprazole, caution should be used when aripiprazole is given in combination with other centrally-acting medications including benzodiazepines and other anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Telavancin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and telavancin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Telmisartan: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions and hypotension during concomitant use of amlodipine. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus amlodipine may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Additionally, aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents such as amlodipine. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions and hypotension during concomitant use of amlodipine. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus amlodipine may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Additionally, aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents such as amlodipine. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Temazepam: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of aripiprazole and benzodiazepines. Intensity of sedation and orthostatic hypotension were greater with the combination of oral aripiprazole and lorazepam compared to aripiprazole alone.
Terazosin: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Terbinafine: (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and terbinafine vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer half of the usual dose. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 300 mg/month or from 300 mg to 200 mg/month. For extended-release aripiprazole injections given once every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), reduce the dosage from 960 mg to 720 mg. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP3A inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; terbinafine is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and terbinafine vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), reduce the dose to the next lowest strength; no dosage adjustment is required for patients tolerating 441 mg or for patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP3A inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; terbinafine is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Tetrabenazine: (Major) Both tetrabenazine and aripiprazole are associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If possible, concurrent use of aripiprazole and tetrabenazine should be avoided since the risk of adverse effects such as QT prolongation, drowsiness, sedation, dizziness, orthostatic hypotension, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, or extrapyramidal symptoms may be increased.
Tezacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of ivacaftor. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus ivacaftor may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; ivacaftor is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Thiazide diuretics: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Thioridazine: (Contraindicated) Thioridazine, a phenothiazine, is associated with an established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and is contraindicated for use with other drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval. Other antipsychotics that may cause QT prolongation and TdP include aripiprazole. Also, coadministration of thioridazine with atypical antipsychotics may increase the risk of adverse effects such as drowsiness, dizziness, orthostatic hypotension, anticholinergic effects, extrapyramidal symptoms, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, or seizures. Although the incidence of tardive dyskinesia from combination antipsychotic therapy has not been established and data are very limited, the risk appears to be increased during use of a conventional and atypical antipsychotic versus use of a conventional antipsychotic alone.
Thiothixene: (Major) Caution is advisable during concurrent use of aripiprazole with other CNS depressants such as thiothixene. The risk of drowsiness, dizziness, hypotension, extrapyramidal symptoms, anticholinergic effects, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, or seizures may be increased during combined use; therefore, it may be advisable to initiate treatment with lower dosages if combination therapy is deemed necessary. Although the incidence of tardive dyskinesia from combination antipsychotic therapy has not been established and data are very limited, the risk appears to be increased during use of a conventional and atypical antipsychotic versus use of a conventional antipsychotic alone.
Ticagrelor: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of ticagrelor. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus ticagrelor may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; ticagrelor is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Timolol: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. It may be advisable to monitor blood pressure when these medications are coadministered.
Tipranavir: (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and tipranavir vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer a quarter of the usual dose. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 200 mg/month or from 300 mg to 160 mg/month. For extended-release aripiprazole injections given once every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), avoid concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; tipranavir is a strong CYP2D6 and strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and tipranavir vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), no dosage adjustment is necessary for patients already tolerating 441 mg; avoid use in patients taking higher doses. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; tipranavir is a strong CYP2D6 and strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Tirzepatide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and incretin mimetic use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
tiZANidine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of aripiprazole and tizanidine due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Tolcapone: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or COMT inhibitor during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with COMT inhibitors and other Parkinson's treatments than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Tolterodine: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering aripiprazole with tolterodine, as use of these drugs together may increase the risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Tolterodine has been associated with dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval, especially in poor CYP2D6 metabolizers. QT prolongation has also occurred during therapeutic use of aripiprazole and following overdose.
Topiramate: (Moderate) Monitor for unusal drowsiness and excessive sedation during concomitant aripiprazole and topiramate use due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Toremifene: (Major) Concomitant use of toremifene and aripiprazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Torsemide: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Tradipitant: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
traMADol: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of tramadol and aripiprazole for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation as well as seizures. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, seizures, and death.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of tramadol and aripiprazole for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation as well as seizures. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, seizures, and death.
Trandolapril: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of verapamil. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus verapamil may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Tranylcypromine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use, or use in rapid succession, of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) and aripiprazole. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, blood pressure, and for unusual drowsiness and sedation. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome and additive hypotension and CNS depression. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy.
traZODone: (Major) QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of aripiprazole and following overdose. Trazodone can prolong the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses. In addition, there are postmarketing reports of torsade de pointes (TdP). Therefore, the manufacturer recommends avoiding trazodone in patients receiving other drugs that increase the QT interval.
Treosulfan: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of treosulfan. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus treosulfan may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; treosulfan is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Treprostinil: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Triamterene: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of triamterene; a triamterene dose adjustment may be needed. Due to its alpha-adrenergic antagonism, aripiprazole has the potential to enhance the effect of certain antihypertensive agents.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of triamterene; a triamterene dose adjustment may be needed. Due to its alpha-adrenergic antagonism, aripiprazole has the potential to enhance the effect of certain antihypertensive agents. (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Triazolam: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of aripiprazole and benzodiazepines. Intensity of sedation and orthostatic hypotension were greater with the combination of oral aripiprazole and lorazepam compared to aripiprazole alone.
Triclabendazole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and aripiprazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of aripiprazole and tricyclic antidepressants due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Trifluoperazine: (Moderate) Trifluoperazine, a phenothiazine, is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Trifluoperazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation, such as aripiprazole. Co-administration of trifluoperazine with atypical agents (e.g., lurasidone and others) may increase the risk of adverse effects such as drowsiness, dizziness, orthostatic hypotension, anticholinergic effects, extrapyramidal symptoms, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, or seizures. The likelihood of these pharmacodynamic interactions varies based upon the individual properties of the co-administered antipsychotic agent. Although the incidence of tardive dyskinesia from combination antipsychotic therapy has not been established and data are very limited, the risk appears to be increased during use of a conventional and atypical antipsychotic versus use of a conventional antipsychotic alone.
Trimipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of aripiprazole and tricyclic antidepressants due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Triprolidine: (Moderate) Due to the primary CNS effects of aripiprazole, caution should be used when aripiprazole is given in combination with other centrally-acting medications including sedating H1-blockers. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may occur.
Triptorelin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., triptorelin) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Trofinetide: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of trofinetide. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus trofinetide may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; trofinetide is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Tucatinib: (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and tucatinib vary by aripiprazole dosage form and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer half of the usual dose; administer a quarter of the usual dose to patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 300 mg/month or from 300 mg to 200 mg/month; administer 200 mg/month to patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For extended-release aripiprazole injections given once every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), reduce the dosage from 960 mg to 720 mg; avoid use in patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; tucatinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and tucatinib vary by aripiprazole dosage form and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), reduce the dose to the next lowest strength; no dosage adjustment is required for patients tolerating 441 mg. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada) in patients who are known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6, reduce the dose to 441 mg; no dosage adjustment is necessary for patients already tolerating 441 mg. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; tucatinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Valproic Acid, Divalproex Sodium: (Minor) When administered with valproic acid the Cmax of aripiprazole is decreased by 25%. This interaction does not appear to cause clinically relevant effects and therefore no dosage adjustments are required.
Valsartan: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Vandetanib: (Major) Concomitant use of vandetanib and aripiprazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Vardenafil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of vardenafil and aripiprazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Vemurafenib: (Major) Because both vemurafenib and aripiprazole are associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), the combination should be used cautiously and with close monitoring. In addition, concomitant use of vemurafenib and aripiprazole may result in altered concentrations of aripiprazole. Vemurafenib is a weak inhibitor of CYP2D6 and an inducer of CYP3A4. Aripiprazole is a substrate of CYP2D6 and CYP3A4. Use caution and monitor patients for toxicity and efficacy.
Venlafaxine: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of venlafaxine and consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Patients receiving both a CYP3A inhibitor plus venlafaxine may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form and CYP3A inhibitor strength. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects; use may also increase the risk for QT/QTc prolongation ad TdP. Aripiprazole is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate, venlafaxine is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Vepdegestrant: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and aripiprazole increases the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase aripiprazole exposure and the risk for other aripiprazole-related adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus vepdegestrant, an aripiprazole dosage adjustment may be required. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate, vepdegestrant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Verapamil: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of verapamil. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus verapamil may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Viloxazine: (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and viloxazine vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer a quarter of the usual dose. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 200 mg/month or from 300 mg to 160 mg/month. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; viloxazine is a weak CYP2D6 and weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Voclosporin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and voclosporin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with voclosporin is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose.
Vonoprazan: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of vonoprazan. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus vonoprazan may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; vonoprazan is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of vonoprazan. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus vonoprazan may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; vonoprazan is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and increases aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Additionally, an aripiprazole dosage reduction is required; management recommendations vary by aripiprazole dosage form and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer half of the usual dose; administer a quarter of the usual dose to patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 300 mg/month or from 300 mg to 200 mg/month; administer 200 mg/month to patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For extended-release aripiprazole injections given once every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), reduce the dosage from 960 mg to 720 mg; avoid use in patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Aripiprazole is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate, clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. (Major) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and increases aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Additionally, an aripiprazole dosage reduction is required; management recommendations vary by aripiprazole dosage form and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), reduce the dose to the next lowest strength; no dosage adjustment is required for patients tolerating 441 mg. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada) in patients who are known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6, reduce the dose to 441 mg; no dosage adjustment is necessary for patients already tolerating 441 mg. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Aripiprazole is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate, clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of vonoprazan. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus vonoprazan may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; vonoprazan is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Voriconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of aripiprazole and voriconazole due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use also increases aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. If concomitant use is necessary, an aripiprazole dosage reduction is required; management recommendations vary by aripiprazole dosage form and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer half of the usual dose; administer a quarter of the usual dose to patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 300 mg/month or from 300 mg to 200 mg/month; administer 200 mg/month to patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For extended-release aripiprazole injections given once every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), reduce the dosage from 960 mg to 720 mg; avoid use in patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Aripiprazole is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate, voriconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of aripiprazole and voriconazole due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use also increases aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. If concomitant use is necessary, an aripiprazole dosage reduction is required; management recommendations vary by aripiprazole dosage form and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), reduce the dose to the next lowest strength; no dosage adjustment is required for patients tolerating 441 mg. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada) in patients who are known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6, reduce the dose to 441 mg; no dosage adjustment is necessary for patients already tolerating 441 mg. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Further dosage reductions may be required in patients who are also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor; see individual product prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate, voriconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Vorinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of vorinostat and aripiprazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Voxelotor: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of voxelotor. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus voxelotor may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Xanomeline; Trospium: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of xanomeline. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus xanomeline may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; xanomeline is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Zafirlukast: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of zafirlukast. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus zafirlukast may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; zafirlukast is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Zaleplon: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of atypical antipsychotics and zaleplon due to the risk for additive CNS depression and next-day psychomotor impairment; dose adjustments may be necessary.
Zidesamtinib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and aripiprazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Ziftomenib: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and aripiprazole increases the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase aripiprazole exposure and the risk for other aripiprazole-related adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. If concomitant use is necessary, those receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor and ziftomenib may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary by aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status; refer to product labeling for specific guidance. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if coadministration is required. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate, ziftomenib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Ziprasidone: (Major) Concomitant use of ziprasidone and aripiprazole should be avoided due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Clinical trial data indicate that ziprasidone causes QT prolongation; there are postmarketing reports of torsade de pointes (TdP) in patients with multiple confounding factors. QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of aripiprazole and following overdose. In addition, coadministration of atypical antipsychotics may increase the risk of adverse effects such as drowsiness, dizziness, orthostatic hypotension, anticholinergic effects, extrapyramidal symptoms, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, or seizures.
Zolpidem: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of atypical antipsychotics and zolpidem due to the risk for additive CNS depression and next-day psychomotor impairment; dose adjustments may be necessary. Limit the dose of Intermezzo sublingual tablets to 1.75 mg/day.
Zonisamide: (Moderate) Zonisamide may cause decreased sweating (oligohidrosis), elevated body temperature (hyperthermia), heat intolerance, or heat stroke. The manufacturer recommends caution in using concurrent drug therapies that may predispose patients to heat-related disorders such as antipsychotics. Monitor patients for heat intolerance, decreased sweating, or increased body temperature if zonisamide is used with any of these agents.
Zuranolone: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.


Adverse Reaction
confusion, drowsiness, impaired cognition, psychomotor impairment


Somnolence (including sedation or drowsiness) has been among the commonly reported adverse events in clinical trials of aripiprazole. In clinical trials of oral aripiprazole in adult or pediatric patients, somnolence/drowsiness/sedation was reported in 4% to 23% of treated patients. In clinical trials of immediate-release intramuscular aripiprazole, somnolence was reported in 7% of patients; sedation (3%) was also reported. There was only a modestly increased incidence of somnolence compared to placebo. Adverse reactions associated with the use of aripiprazole lauroxil extended-release injection 441 mg monthly, 882 mg every 6 weeks, and 1,064 mg every 2 months were similar across dose groups in an open-label pharmacokinetic study. Like other antipsychotics, all formulations of aripiprazole may have the potential to cause confusion, impaired cognition or impaired motor skills (psychomotor impairment); however, such side effects were not reported in controlled clinical trials.


fatigue, lethargy


In clinical trials with oral aripiprazole, fatigue was reported in 6% of treated adults and at rates higher than reported with placebo. During pediatric clinical trials of oral aripiprazole, fatigue (8% to 17%) and lethargy (2% to 5%) were reported. In clinical trials with immediate-release intramuscular aripiprazole, fatigue occurred in 2% of those receiving active drug.


headache


In clinical trials with aripiprazole in adults, headache was commonly reported (for oral aripiprazole, 27%; for immediate-release intramuscular aripiprazole, 12%). Headache was also reported during pediatric oral aripiprazole clinical trials, in 10% to 13% of treated patients. In a controlled trial of aripiprazole lauroxil extended-release injection in adults, headache occurred in 3% of patients receiving 441 mg and 5% of patients receiving 882 mg of aripiprazole lauroxil and more frequently than with placebo.


agitation, anxiety, irritability, memory impairment, myoclonia


In clinical trials with orally administered aripiprazole, anxiety (17%) and agitation (19%) were reported in treated adults. Other centrally-mediated effects reported in 0.1% to 1% of treated adults during premarketing evaluation of oral aripiprazole included memory impairment and myoclonia. In pediatric trials, irritability was reported in 1% to 2% of subjects receiving oral aripiprazole. These same adverse effects are possible with injectable formulations.


dizziness


In clinical trials with aripiprazole in adults, dizziness was reported (10% for oral aripiprazole; 8% for immediate-release intramuscular aripiprazole; 4% for extended-release aripiprazole injection and also reported with aripiprazole lauroxil extended-release injection). Dizziness was also reported in 3% to 5% of pediatric patients receiving oral aripiprazole in clinical trials.


insomnia


In clinical trials, insomnia was reported in 18% of adults receiving oral aripiprazole; insomnia was not reported in pediatric clinical trials. In a controlled trial of aripiprazole lauroxil extended-release injectable in adults, insomnia occurred more frequently than with placebo (441 mg = 3%; 882 mg = 4%).


akathisia, akinesia, choreoathetosis, dystonic reaction, hypertonia, hypotonia, pseudoparkinsonism, restlessness, tremor


Extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) consist of several categories including dystonic reactions, pseudoparkinsonism, and akathisia. During clinical trials in adults, the following extrapyramidal effects occurred more frequently in those receiving oral aripiprazole than placebo: akathisia (8% to 13%), unspecified extrapyramidal disorder (5%), restlessness (5% to 6%), and tremor (5%); pseudoparkinsonism (0.1% to less than 1%, including cogwheel rigidity, hypokinesia, bradykinesia/akinesia, and hypertonia) and hypotonia (less than 1%) were also reported. Choreoathetosis, speech disorder, and abnormal coordination were reported rarely (less than 0.1%). During pediatric clinical trials with oral aripiprazole, the following extrapyramidal effects were reported more frequently in treated subjects than placebo: unspecified extrapyramidal disorder (6% to 20%), akathisia (6% to 10%), tremor (6% to 10%), and dystonic reaction (1% to 2%). Akathisia was reported in 2% of adults receiving immediate-release intramuscular aripiprazole and 11% of adults receiving aripiprazole extended-release intramuscular injection each month. In a controlled trial of aripiprazole lauroxil extended-release intramuscular injection in adults, the following extrapyramidal effects occurred in patients receiving 441 mg or 882 mg, respectively: akathisia (11%, 11%), restlessness (3%, 1%), dystonic reaction (2%, 2%), and pseudoparkinsonism (3%, 4%). Oculogyric crisis has been reported during postmarketing use of aripiprazole.


complex sleep-related behaviors, delirium, depression, impulse control symptoms, libido decrease, libido increase, somnambulism, suicidal ideation


Impulse control symptoms, particularly gambling urges, have occurred while taking aripiprazole. Less frequently reported urges include eating or binge-eating, shopping, and sexual urges/behaviors. In some cases, these uncontrollable compulsions stop when the medicine is discontinued, or the dose is reduced; therefore, consider dose reduction or discontinuation if these symptoms develop. Inform patients and caregivers of the risk of impulse control symptoms. Health care providers should specifically ask patients about any new or increasing urges or compulsions during treatment because patients may not recognize these behaviors as abnormal. During clinical trials with oral aripiprazole, the following psychiatric effects were reported in 0.1% to less than 1% of treated adults: aggression, libido decrease, and delirium. Rare events (less than 0.1%) included libido increase, tics, homicidal ideation, catatonia, and complex sleep-related behaviors such as sleepwalking (somnambulism). One case of a sleep-related eating disorder (i.e., recurrent episodes of nocturnal eating and drinking while asleep) in an adult rapidly/completely resolved following a dose reduction from 3 mg/day to 1.5 mg/day orally. Sleep-talking was reported in 0.1% to less than 1% of pediatric oral aripiprazole recipients during premarketing evaluation. Hypersomnia was reported in 1% of pediatric patients during clinical trials. Anxiety and suicide were reported during the premarketing evaluation of aripiprazole lauroxil extended-release injectable in adults. Monitor all aripiprazole recipients for any indication of worsening depression or the treated condition, and for the emergence of suicidal behaviors or suicidal ideation, especially during the initial few months of drug therapy and after dosage changes. In a pooled analysis of placebo-controlled trials of antidepressants (n = 4,500 pediatrics and 77,000 adults), there was an increased risk for suicidal thoughts and behaviors in people 24 years of age and younger receiving an antidepressant versus placebo, with considerable variation in the risk of suicidality among drugs. The difference in the absolute risk of suicidal thoughts and behaviors across different indications was highest in subjects with major depression.


seizures


In short-term clinical trials, seizures occurred in 0.1% of adults and 0.1% of pediatric subjects (6 to 18 years) treated with oral aripiprazole. Grand mal seizures were reported in less than 0.1% of adults receiving oral aripiprazole during premarketing evaluation. Seizures occurred in 0.2% of adults receiving the immediate-release injection and may occur with use of extended-release injections as well.


asthenia, peripheral edema


General disorders that occurred in 1% or more of adults during premarketing evaluation of oral aripiprazole included asthenia, which was also reported in 2% of pediatric patients. Asthenia was also reported during premarketing evaluation of aripiprazole lauroxil extended-release injection in adults. Falls and peripheral edema occurred infrequently (0.1% to less than 1%) in adults receiving oral aripiprazole. Rare events (less than 0.1%) with aripiprazole have included face edema.


hypotension, orthostatic hypotension, syncope


During clinical trials of oral aripiprazole, the following side effects occurred more frequently in adults receiving aripiprazole than placebo: orthostatic hypotension (1%), postural dizziness (0.5%), and syncope (0.5%); hypotension was reported in 0.1% to less than 1% of treated adults. In pediatric clinical trials, orthostatic hypotension (0.5%), postural dizziness (0.4%), and syncope (0.2%) were reported with oral aripiprazole use. Symptomatic changes in systolic blood pressure of 30 mmHg or more were similar between oral aripiprazole and placebo during oral clinical trials for both schizophrenia and bipolar disorder in adults. In patients receiving aripiprazole immediate-release injections, orthostatic hypotension (0.6%), postural dizziness (0.2%), and syncope (0.4%) were reported, particularly in predisposed adults. Orthostasis occurred in 0.7% of adults treated with extended-release injectable aripiprazole and included abnormal orthostatic blood pressure (0.2%), postural dizziness (0.2%), presyncope (0.2%), and orthostatic hypotension (0.2%). During a controlled trial of aripiprazole lauroxil extended-release injection in adults, only 1 patient (0.5%) receiving the 882 mg dose experienced orthostatic hypotension. In a long-term, open-label study of aripiprazole lauroxil extended-release injection, orthostatic hypotension was reported in 1 patient (0.2%) and this adverse reaction incidence was similar across dose groups. Orthostatic hypotension with aripiprazole most likely occurs due to alpha-1 adrenergic blockade that results in peripheral vasodilation.


stroke


There is an increased risk of stroke and a greater rate of cognitive decline and mortality in older adults with dementia-related psychosis receiving antipsychotics. In placebo-controlled clinical studies of aripiprazole in people with dementia-related psychosis, there was an increased incidence of cerebrovascular adverse events (e.g., stroke, transient ischemic attack), including fatalities, in aripiprazole-treated older adults (age range 78 to 88 years). In one study, a statistically significant dose-response relationship for cerebrovascular adverse events was shown in those treated with aripiprazole. Aripiprazole is not approved for the treatment of dementia-related psychosis.


abdominal pain, anorexia, constipation, dental pain, diarrhea, dyspepsia, dysphagia, fecal incontinence, gastroesophageal reflux, hypersalivation, nausea, vomiting, weight loss, xerostomia


During clinical trials of oral aripiprazole in adults, the following gastrointestinal (GI) effects occurred more frequently in treated adults than with placebo: nausea (15%), constipation (11%), vomiting (11%), dyspepsia (9%), xerostomia (5%), dental pain (toothache, 4%), abdominal pain or discomfort (3%), and stomach discomfort (3%). Weight loss (1% or more), anorexia (1% or more) and gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD, 1% or less) were reported in adult oral aripiprazole recipients. During pediatric clinical trials, GI effects reported more frequently with oral aripiprazole than placebo included: nausea (8% to 11%), vomiting (8% to 14%), constipation (2% to 3%), diarrhea (4% to 5%), upper abdominal pain (3%), abdominal discomfort (2%), drooling (3% to 9%), appetite decrease (4% to 7%), xerostomia (1%), and hypersalivation (4% to 6%). Dry tongue and tongue spasm were reported in 0.1% to less than 1% of treated pediatric patients. Fecal incontinence has been reported during postmarketing use of oral aripiprazole. The most common GI effects reported in adults receiving once-monthly aripiprazole extended-release injection were constipation (10%), xerostomia (4%), decreased weight (4%), diarrhea (3%), vomiting (2%), and abdominal discomfort (2%). Constipation and xerostomia were also reported during premarketing evaluation of aripiprazole lauroxil extended-release injectable in adults. Nausea (9%) and vomiting (3%) were reported during clinical trials in patients receiving single doses of immediate-release aripiprazole injectable solution. Aspiration (including aspiration pneumonia) and esophageal dysmotility resulting in dysphagia have been associated with use of antipsychotic drugs.


nocturia, urinary incontinence, urinary retention


Urinary incontinence (enuresis) was frequently reported (1% or more) during pediatric clinical trials of oral aripiprazole. Rarely, urinary retention and nocturia were reported during clinical trials in adults receiving oral aripiprazole. In trials of adults with dementia-related psychosis, treatment-emergent adverse events included incontinence (5%) (primarily urinary incontinence, and fecal incontinence to a lesser extent).


appetite stimulation, weight gain


Aripiprazole may cause weight gain; monitoring of weight is recommended during aripiprazole therapy. The following are the percentages of adults receiving oral aripiprazole monotherapy who experienced a weight gain of at least 7% of body weight: schizophrenia (8.1%), bipolar disorder (2.2%), and adjunct for major depression (5.2%). Appetite stimulation was reported in 3% of adult oral aripiprazole recipients during adjunctive trials for major depression. In a controlled trial of aripiprazole lauroxil extended-release injection in adults, the percentage experiencing an increase of at least 7% of body weight from baseline for 441 mg (10%) or 882 mg (9%) doses was greater than with placebo. In a pooled analysis of monotherapy adult trials with a median exposure of 21 to 25 days, the mean change in body weight in oral aripiprazole recipients was +0.3 kg vs. -0.1 kg for placebo. At 24 weeks, the mean change in the active treatment group was -1.5 kg vs. -0.2 kg for placebo. During 6 weeks of adjunct therapy for major depression, the mean change in body weight in the adult aripiprazole group was +1.7 kg vs. +0.4 kg for placebo. In all pediatric indications studied, the following percentages of children and adolescents experienced weight gain of at least 7% of body weight while receiving oral aripiprazole: schizophrenia or bipolar disorder (2% to 5.2%), autistic disorder (26.3%), and Tourette's disorder (20%). During pediatric clinical trials, both appetite stimulation (7%) and decreased appetite (4% to 7%) occurred more frequently with aripiprazole than placebo; weight gain occurred in 3% of pediatric aripiprazole recipients. When weight gain was adjusted for natural growth in open-label pediatric trials, the mean change in body weight was not clinically significant. Data analysis in pediatric patients at approximately 6 weeks showed a mean body weight change of +1.6 kg for oral aripiprazole vs. +0.3 kg for placebo; at 24 weeks, the mean body weight change in the active treatment group was +5.8 kg vs. +1.4 kg for placebo.


diabetes mellitus, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia


Epidemiological studies suggest an increased risk of hyperglycemia-related adverse effects during atypical antipsychotic use. Pooled data from adult and pediatric clinical trials with oral aripiprazole revealed no clinically significant mean changes in fasting glucose vs. placebo (less than 5 mg/dL increase in all aripiprazole groups). However, hyperglycemia occurred frequently and hypoglycemia infrequently in adults receiving oral aripiprazole during premarketing evaluation. Up to 3.8% of adult or pediatric aripiprazole recipients experienced a shift from normal blood glucose (less than 100 mg/dL) to high (126 mg/dL or more). The percentage of treated adult or pediatric patients experiencing a shift in serum glucose from borderline (100 to 125 mg/dL) to high (126 mg/dL or more) was up to 17.6%. Increased blood insulin was reported in 1% or more of pediatric oral aripiprazole recipients during clinical evaluation. Rare events (less than 0.1%) included increased glycosylated hemoglobin A1C in adult aripiprazole recipients. Blood glucose fluctuations have also been reported during postmarketing use. In a long-term, open-label study of aripiprazole lauroxil extended-release injectable in adults, 14% of treated adults with a normal A1C at baseline developed increased A1C levels of at least 5.7%. Atypical antipsychotics may have effects on glucose metabolism that are independent of their effect on weight gain. In one study, patients taking atypical antipsychotics were 9% more likely to have a new diagnosis of diabetes mellitus than patients taking traditional agents. Temporal associations suggest that atypical antipsychotic therapy may precipitate or unmask diabetes mellitus in some patients; glucose levels usually normalize after discontinuation of the drug in most people. A positive re-challenge has been demonstrated in some of these cases. Diabetic ketoacidosis has also occurred in patients treated with atypical antipsychotics. The possibility of impaired glucose tolerance should be considered if symptoms of hyperglycemia, such as polydipsia, polyuria, polyphagia, and weakness occur. Dosage reduction, if clinically possible, may improve glycemic control.


hypercholesterolemia, hyperlipidemia, hypertriglyceridemia


Hyperlipidemia has been observed in atypical antipsychotic recipients and is part of the metabolic changes often noted with these drugs; however, pooled analyses from adult and pediatric premarketing clinical trials revealed no significant differences in triglycerides, HDL, LDL, or total cholesterol between oral aripiprazole groups and placebo groups. The following percentages of oral aripiprazole treated individuals experienced changes in lipid parameters: from normal to high total cholesterol (hypercholesterolemia up to 2.5%), from normal to high fasting triglycerides (TG)(hypertriglyceridemia up to 14.7%), from normal to high fasting LDL cholesterol (up to 0.6%), and from normal to low HDL cholesterol (3.7% to 11.4%). Changes in lipid parameters might also occur with other dosage forms. In a 52-week, open-label trial of a once-monthly extended release aripiprazole injection, shifts from baseline in fasting cholesterol from normal to high occurred in 2.1% (total cholesterol) and 2.2% (LDL cholesterol) while shifts from baseline of normal to low were reported in 8.5% (HDL cholesterol) of patients. In patients with normal baseline TG, 3.6% experienced shifts to high TG concentrations. In a long-term, open-label trial of aripiprazole lauroxil extended-release injectable, the following percentages of treated adults experienced shifts in baseline lipid parameters: from normal to high fasting total cholesterol (1%), from normal to high fasting LDL cholesterol (1%), from normal to high fasting TG (8%), from borderline to high fasting total cholesterol (15%), from borderline to high fasting LDL cholesterol (8%), from borderline to high fasting TG (35%), and from normal to low fasting HDL cholesterol (15%).


arthralgia, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, myasthenia, rhabdomyolysis


During clinical trials in adults, the following musculoskeletal effects were reported more frequently with oral aripiprazole than placebo: musculoskeletal pain or stiffness (4%), pain in extremity (4%), myalgia (2% to 3%), muscle spasms (2%), pain (unspecified) (3%), and arthralgia (4%). In addition, muscle weakness (myasthenia) and muscle tightness (0.1% to less than 1%) and rhabdomyolysis (less than 0.1%) were reported. Arthralgia (4%), back pain (4%), myalgia (4%), and musculoskeletal pain (3%) were also reported with once-monthly extended-release aripiprazole intramuscular injections in adults. Myasthenia was reported during premarketing evaluation of aripiprazole lauroxil extended-release injection in adults. The following musculoskeletal effects were reported in pediatric clinical trials of oral aripiprazole: arthralgia (1%), musculoskeletal pain/stiffness (1% to 2%) and muscle rigidity (2%).


blurred vision, diplopia, photophobia


Ocular adverse effects reported in 2% or more of adults receiving oral aripiprazole included blurred vision (3%) and photophobia (0.1% to less than 1%); diplopia was rarely reported. In pediatric oral aripiprazole recipients, blurred vision (3% to 8%) and oculogyric crisis (0.1% to less than 1%) were reported.


agranulocytosis, leukopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia


Clinical trial data and postmarketing reports indicate that leukopenia, neutropenia, and agranulocytosis have occurred during the use of antipsychotic agents. Thrombocytopenia was reported in less than 0.1% of adults receiving oral aripiprazole during premarketing evaluation. Monitor a complete blood count (CBC) during the first few months of therapy, and as clinically indicated, particularly if other risk factors are present. Consider treatment discontinuation if a clinically significant decline in WBC occurs in the absence of an identifiable cause. Discontinue aripiprazole if severe neutropenia (ANC less than 1,000/mm3) occurs.


cough, dyspnea, epistaxis, fever, hiccups, nasal congestion, pharyngitis, rhinorrhea


Adverse effects reported in 2% or more of oral aripiprazole-treated adults included cough (3%) and pharyngolaryngeal pain (3%). Infrequent (0.1% to less than 1%) side effects in adults included nasal congestion and dyspnea. Fever (4% to 9%), epistaxis (2%), naso-pharyngitis (6% to 9%), and rhinorrhea (2%) were reported in pediatric oral aripiprazole recipients. Hiccups have been reported postmarketing.


elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatitis, hyperbilirubinemia, jaundice


Elevated hepatic enzymes (0.1% to less than 1%) occurred in adult oral aripiprazole recipients during premarketing evaluation. Hepatitis, jaundice, and increased blood bilirubin (hyperbilirubinemia) were reported in less than 0.1% of treated adults.


angina, atrial fibrillation, atrial flutter, AV block, bradycardia, cardiac arrest, chest pain (unspecified), hypertension, myocardial infarction, palpitations, QT prolongation, sinus tachycardia, torsade de pointes


Bradycardia, chest pain (unspecified), hypertension, and palpitations were reported in 0.1% to less than 1% of adult oral aripiprazole recipients during premarketing evaluation. Rare events (less than 0.1%) included QT prolongation, atrial flutter, cardiac arrest (cardio-respiratory arrest), AV block, atrial fibrillation, angina, myocardial ischemia, myocardial infarction, and cardiopulmonary failure. Sinus tachycardia was reported in 2% of adults receiving immediate-release aripiprazole injection solution in clinical trials. Angina, sinus tachycardia, and palpitations were reported during premarketing evaluation of aripiprazole lauroxil extended-release injection in adults. Aripiprazole is considered a drug with a possible risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). Aripiprazole (oral) was associated with a median increase in heart rate of 2 beats per minute. No significant differences in ECG parameters were noted with immediate-release aripiprazole injection solution or oral aripiprazole treatment vs. placebo.


elevated creatine kinase, hypokalemia


Hypokalemia was reported in 0.1% to less than 1% of adult oral aripiprazole recipients during premarketing evaluation. In a controlled trial of aripiprazole lauroxil extended-release injection, elevated creatine kinase (CK) occurred in 2% of adults receiving the 441 mg dose, and 1% with the 882 mg dose. There were no reports of elevated CK with placebo.


anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS), laryngospasm, pruritus, rash, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria


Hypersensitivity reactions were reported in less than 0.1% of adults receiving oral aripiprazole during premarketing evaluation, rash (unspecified) and pruritus were reported in 0.1% to less than 1%, and rarely, urticaria occurred. Rash (unspecified) was reported in 2% of pediatric patients receiving oral aripiprazole during clinical trials. Hypersensitivity, anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, laryngospasm, pruritus, urticaria, oropharyngeal spasm, and Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS) have been reported during postmarketing experience with aripiprazole (various formulations). In an ISMP safety report, aripiprazole was noted as 1 of the 20 drugs having the strongest signals for Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS) or toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN) with 16 cases reported over 1 year to the FDA Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS).


alopecia, hirsutism, hyperhidrosis, photosensitivity, skin irritation


Other dermatologic events, including hyperhidrosis (increased sweating), photosensitivity, and alopecia were reported in 0.1% to less than 1% of adults treated with oral aripiprazole during premarketing evaluation. Hirsutism was reported in 0.1% to less than 1% of pediatric patients receiving oral aripiprazole. These events are also possible with other dosage forms. The aripiprazole tablet with sensor (Abilify Mycite) comes packaged with a skin patch that is to be applied to the patient; symptoms of skin irritation with rash at the site of the patch with this dosage form may occur in some patients. During clinical trials of the sensor-tablet, 12.4% of aripiprazole-treated patients experienced reactions localized at the site of patch placement. If there is skin irritation, advise the patient to remove the patch and consult their health care team.


amenorrhea, azotemia, dysmenorrhea, gynecomastia, hyperprolactinemia, impotence (erectile dysfunction), mastalgia, menstrual irregularity, orgasm dysfunction, priapism


Decreased serum prolactin levels have been reported for at least 1% of adult oral aripiprazole recipients during clinical trial evaluations; other laboratory abnormalities such as increased blood lactate dehydrogenase and increased gamma glutamyl transferase (GGT) occurred infrequently. Rare laboratory changes (less than 0.1%) included increased blood prolactin (hyperprolactinemia), increased blood urea nitrogen or azotemia, or increased serum creatinine. Hyperprolactinemia may result in reproductive changes in males or females. Reproductive or breast disorders reported in 0.1% to less than 1% of adult oral aripiprazole recipients included impotence (erectile dysfunction) and rare reproductive or breast changes (less than 0.1%) included menstrual irregularity, orgasm dysfunction (anorgasmia), amenorrhea, breast pain (mastalgia), gynecomastia, and priapism. These events might also occur with other dosage forms. In clinical trials of oral aripiprazole in pediatric patients, dysmenorrhea was reported in 2% of treated patients.


injection site reaction


Injection site reaction was reported in 1% or more of adults treated with immediate-release aripiprazole injection solution, and injection site bruise was reported infrequently. During open-label premarketing evaluation of aripiprazole extended-release injections, 6.3% of patients experienced an injection site reaction, but pain improvement occurred from the first to the last injection. Investigator evaluation of the injection site for pain, swelling, redness and induration was rated as absent for 74% to 96% of subjects following the first injection and 77% to 96% of subjects following the last injection. In a controlled trial of aripiprazole lauroxil extended-release injection in adults, injection site reactions were reported in those receiving Aristada (441 mg/dose = 4%; 882 mg/dose = 5%) at higher rates than with placebo. Injection site pain was most frequent (441 mg = 3%; 882 mg = 4%); localized induration, swelling, and erythema occurred in less than 1% of patients, and incidences reduced to less than 1% for both Aristada and placebo after the first injections. Aristada Initio had similar injection site reaction incidences to Aristada injection.


tardive dyskinesia


Tardive dyskinesia (TD) is a syndrome of potentially irreversible, involuntary, dyskinetic movements that may develop during treatment with antipsychotic drugs. Involuntary orofacial movements (tongue, mouth, jaw, eyelids, or face) or choreoathetoid movements in the extremities may occur. Factors associated with an increased risk of TD include an age above 55 years, female gender, white or African ethnicity, presence of a mood disorder, intellectual disability, CNS injury, prior or current akathisia, significant parkinsonism, or acute dystonic reaction. The rate of TD in adults treated with a first generation antipsychotic appears to be at least 3 times that observed with second generation antipsychotics like aripiprazole. It is believed that the likelihood of developing TD increases with prolonged treatment and cumulative doses. Less commonly, it can also develop after short periods of time and with low dosages or may go undetected until the medication is stopped. The use of antipsychotics may mask signs and symptoms of TD; however, TD may also remit partially or completely if the antipsychotic is withdrawn. The effect that symptomatic suppression has upon the long-term course of TD is unknown. In people who require chronic treatment with aripiprazole, the lowest possible dose and the shortest duration of treatment should be used. Monitor aripiprazole recipients routinely (at 3 to 6-month intervals) for movement disorders using standardized assessments (e.g., AIMS, DISCUS). If signs or symptoms of TD develop, consider discontinuation of aripiprazole therapy.


hyponatremia, polydipsia, SIADH, water intoxication


Thirst and polydipsia have occurred during treatment with antipsychotics. Polydipsia may be psychogenic in nature or a result of antipsychotic-induced metabolic complications such as diabetes; therefore, careful evaluation is recommended. In clinical trials of oral aripiprazole in pediatric patients, thirst was reported in 1% of treated patients. Hyponatremia can develop from polydipsia which can progress to water intoxication, with symptoms such as confusion, lethargy, psychosis, and in severe cases, seizures or death. Some data suggest that antipsychotic-induced hyponatremia is most likely the result of syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone (SIADH). Hyponatremia was reported in 1% or less of treated subjects during premarketing evaluation of aripiprazole.


serotonin syndrome


Aripiprazole is a partial agonist at the dopaminergic D2 receptor and at the serotonergic 5-HT1A receptor and is an antagonist at the serotonergic 5-HT2A receptor. While the drug is not likely to cause serotonin syndrome as monotherapy, a few cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported in the published medical literature when aripiprazole has been combined with a serotonergic agent (e.g., fluoxetine). In an ISMP safety report, aripiprazole was noted as 1 of the antipsychotic drugs having the strongest signals for serotonin syndrome, with 37 cases reported over 1 year to the FDA Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS).  


heat intolerance, hyperthermia, hypothermia


Antipsychotic agents can disrupt a person's ability to reduce core body temperature, which may result in hyperthermia. People at particular risk for hyperthermia include those who exercise strenuously, are exposed to extreme heat, are dehydrated, or are receiving concomitant anticholinergic medications. Rarely, heat intolerance or exhaustion was reported in adults receiving aripiprazole during premarketing evaluation of the drug. A less frequently described alteration in thermoregulatory processes reported with both conventional and atypical antipsychotics is hypothermia. Thermoregulation is multi-factorial; however, the dopaminergic system appears to have a primary role, and serotonin may also have modulatory activity (5-HT2A receptors). Most cases of hypothermia associated with antipsychotics have occurred in conjunction with other potential precipitating factors such as hypothyroidism, sepsis, organic brain injury, or environmental temperature. Hypothermia appears to occur more frequently during initiation of antipsychotic therapy or after dose increases.


neuroleptic malignant syndrome


A potentially fatal symptom complex referred to as neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) has been associated with administration of antipsychotic drugs. Rarely, NMS has occurred with aripiprazole use, although the exact incidence is unknown. NMS is characterized by hyperpyrexia, muscle rigidity, altered mental status, and autonomic instability (e.g., irregular pulse or blood pressure, tachycardia, diaphoresis, cardiac dysrhythmia). Creatine kinase (CK) elevation, rhabdomyolysis, and acute renal failure have also occurred with NMS. The cause of NMS is not completely understood; however, dopamine receptor blockade is one of the mechanisms by which NMS is thought to occur. A primary risk factor for developing NMS appears to be the initiation or increase in dose of an antipsychotic. High potency and depot antipsychotics carry the greatest risk. Environmental risk factors include conditions that inhibit heat dissipation such as an elevated ambient room temperature, prolonged heat exposure, the use of patient restraints, or dehydration. NMS occurs more frequently in young adults, which is most likely the result of age of first exposure rather than an age-related risk. NMS occurs more frequently in men, which is thought to be related to the higher likelihood of male versus female exposure to the causative agent. Risk factors for recurrent NMS include a personal history of NMS, increasing age, and certain medical comorbities (e.g., electrolyte imbalances, dehydration). Aripiprazole should be immediately discontinued and appropriate supportive therapy initiated as soon as symptoms of NMS are discovered.


laboratory test interference


A laboratory test interference may occur with aripiprazole use. Some reports suggest that a false positive urine drug screen may occur for amphetamines in patients who have ingested aripiprazole. Caution should be exercised when interpreting positive urine drug screens, and consider confirmation by alternative tests such as gas chromatography/mass spectrometry.


Description

Aripiprazole is an atypical antipsychotic in a class known as dopamine system stabilizers (DSSs). Aripiprazole is a partial dopamine agonist, in contrast to most other antipsychotics that are full dopamine antagonists. Atypical antipsychotics such as aripiprazole are first-line treatment options for the management of schizophrenia and related disorders, except for clozapine. Both negative and cognitive symptoms of schizophrenia are reduced by aripiprazole and motor side effects appear to be minimal compared with many other antipsychotics. Oral aripiprazole is used in adults with schizophrenia, bipolar I disorder, and as adjunct therapy in major depressive disorder (MDD). Oral aripiprazole has also proven effective for the treatment of several conditions in pediatric patients, including adolescents with schizophrenia, children 10 years and older with bipolar I disorder, and children 6 years and older with irritability associated with autistic disorder or with tics due to Tourette's syndrome. The American Academy of Neurology practice guideline states that aripiprazole is probably more likely than placebo to reduce tic severity in patients with Tourette's syndrome or chronic tic disorders; however, there is insufficient evidence to determine the efficacy of aripiprazole relative to other antipsychotics used to treat tics. Aripiprazole was the first oral antipsychotic to be marketed as a drug-device combination product (Abilify Mycite) comprised of aripiprazole tablets embedded with an Ingestible Event Marker (IEM) sensor intended to track compliance in adults. Aripiprazole is also available as distinct intramuscular depot injection products for maintenance therapy in adults, including an extended-release monthly injection (Abilify Maintena) as well as a 2-month formulation (Abilify Asimtufii), both approved for treatment of schizophrenia or bipolar I disorder. Aripiprazole lauroxil (Aristada) is also an extended-release injection that may be administered every 1 to 2 months for the treatment of schizophrenia. Aristada Initio is an extended-release intramuscular injection used as a single dose in initiation regimens for Aristada or following a missed dose of Aristada; this dosage form uses a smaller particle size of aripiprazole lauroxil than Aristada, enabling faster dissolution and attainment of desired aripiprazole plasma concentrations. As with all atypical antipsychotics, the labels include a boxed warning regarding an increased mortality risk in geriatric adults with dementia-related psychosis. Product labels for all adjunctive treatments for various depressive disorders contain a boxed warning related to an increased risk of suicidality in children, adolescents, and young adults during the initial stages of therapy with an antidepressant, whether treating depression or other psychiatric conditions. Aripiprazole was initially FDA-approved in November 2002.

Mechanism Of Action

The mechanism of action of aripiprazole is fundamentally different from most currently available antipsychotics. While active at both dopamine and serotonin receptors like other antipsychotics, aripiprazole is a partial agonist at the dopaminergic D2 receptor and at the serotonergic 5-HT1A receptor and is an antagonist at the serotonergic 5-HT2A receptor. The partial agonist activity at the D2 receptor is a result of the drug acting as an antagonist at postsynaptic D2 receptors and a weak agonist at presynaptic D2 receptors. There appears to be activation at the receptor in states of low dopaminergic tone and inhibition at the receptor in states of high dopaminergic tone. Aripiprazole does have a high affinity for the D2 receptor, although the activity is less than that of haloperidol or chlorpromazine. The actions at the D2, 5-HT1A and 5-HT2A receptors are thought to mediate antipsychotic action of aripiprazole, as data indicate that the dopamine and serotonin systems are important in the pathology of the symptoms of schizophrenia. Aripiprazole has a higher affinity for 5-HT1A and 5-HT2A receptors relative to the D2 receptor, which may explain the drug's lower propensity to cause extrapyramidal side effects. Actions at receptors other than D2, 5-HT1A, and 5-HT2A include activities at the D3, D4, 5-HT2C, 5-HT7, alpha-1 adrenergic and histamine receptors (H1 receptors), which may explain some of the clinical effects of aripiprazole such as orthostatic hypotension and somnolence. Aripiprazole lauroxil is a pro-drug of aripiprazole; the activity of this pro-drug is primarily due to aripiprazole, and to a lesser extent dehydroaripiprazole.

Pharmacokinetics

Aripiprazole is administered orally or intramuscularly. The extended-release intramuscular formulations of aripiprazole lauroxil (Aristada and Aristada Initio) are pro-drugs of aripiprazole; following intramuscular administration, aripiprazole lauroxil is likely converted through enzyme-mediated hydrolysis to N-hydroxymethylaripiprazole, and then by water-mediated hydrolysis to aripiprazole. At therapeutic concentrations, aripiprazole and its major metabolite are more than 99% bound to serum proteins, primarily albumin. There appears to be dose-dependent D2-receptor occupancy, indicating brain penetration in humans. It is metabolized primarily by 3 pathways: dehydrogenation, hydroxylation, and N-dealkylation. The isoenzymes CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 are responsible for dehydrogenation and hydroxylation, and N-dealkylation is catalyzed by CYP3A4. At steady state, the active metabolite dehydroaripiprazole represents about 40% of the aripiprazole AUC in plasma. Approximately 25% of an administered dose is excreted in the urine as metabolites, less than 1% as unchanged drug. Fifty-five percent is excreted in the feces as metabolites with 18% as unchanged drug. The mean elimination half-lives of aripiprazole and dehydroaripiprazole are about 75 hours and 94 hours, respectively, with use of immediate-release dosage forms. The mean elimination half-life of extended-release intramuscular aripiprazole (i.e., Abilify Maintena) after multiple 4-week injections of the 300 mg and 400 mg dose is 29.9 days and 46.5 days, respectively. The mean elimination half-life of the extended-release intramuscular injection Aristada ranges from 53.9 to 57.2 days after monthly, 6-week, and 2-month injections. The mean elimination half-life of Aristada Initio is 15 to 18 days post-injection. Mean apparent terminal elimination of Abilify Asimtufii was 21 days. The significantly longer half-lives of the various extended-release intramuscular injections are due to the dissolution and rate-limited elimination attributes of these formulations.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A4, CYP2D6
Metabolism of aripiprazole occurs mainly through CYP3A4 and CYP2D6. Dosage adjustments are required in patients taking certain CYP2D6 or CYP3A4 inhibitors or combinations of CYP2D6 and 3A4 inhibitors, especially for a prolonged period of time, recommendations for adjustments vary depending on the dosage form prescribed. Review drug interactions. Avoid use of the Aristada Initio product in patients receiving strong CYP3A4 or CYP2D6 inhibitors or strong CYP3A4 inducers because the dose cannot be modified. Aripiprazole does not inhibit or induce CYP isoenzymes CYP2D6, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, or CYP3A4.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route

Oral aripiprazole is well absorbed with 87% absolute bioavailability.
Tablets and oral solution: At equivalent doses, the plasma concentrations of aripiprazole from the solution are higher than the tablet formulation. In a relative bioavailability study comparing 30 mg of aripiprazole oral solution to 30 mg aripiprazole tablets, the solution to tablet ratios of geometric mean Cmax and AUC values were 122% and 114%, respectively. The single-dose pharmacokinetics of aripiprazole were linear and dose-proportional at doses of 5 to 30 mg. Peak plasma concentrations occur within 3 to 5 hours following oral tablet administration. Steady-state concentrations are attained within 14 days of oral dosing for both aripiprazole and its active metabolite dehydroaripiprazole. Absorption following an oral dose is not affected by food. The mean elimination half-lives of aripiprazole and dehydroaripiprazole are about 75 hours and 94 hours, respectively, with oral dosing.
Oral film: ; For aripiprazole oral film, the median time to reach peak plasma concentrations was 1.5 hours (range: 1, 6 hours). When the aripiprazole oral film was studied in healthy subjects under fasting and fed conditions, administration of a 20 mg oral film with a standard high-fat (800 to 1,000 Kcal; 50% fat) meal did not significantly affect Cmax or AUC of aripiprazole; however, the median Tmax increased from 1.5 hours (range: 1, 6 hours) to 6 hours (range: 1.5, 12 hours). In addition, no clinically significant difference in pharmacokinetics of aripiprazole and dehydroaripiprazole were observed following administration of oral film with and without water.


Intramuscular Route


Abilify immediate-release (aripiprazole) intramuscular injection solution (off-market): The intramuscular injection solution of aripiprazole has an absolute bioavailability of 100%. Peak plasma concentrations occur within 1 to 3 hours following intramuscular administration. The mean Cmax following an intramuscular dose is on average 19% higher than for oral tablets. The AUC within the first 2 hours is 90% higher for an intramuscular dose versus an oral dose; although the systemic exposure is similar between the formulations over 24 hours. Pharmacokinetic data on the metabolism and elimination of intramuscular aripiprazole is not available, but is expected to be similar to the oral formulation of the drug.
Abilify Maintena (aripiprazole) extended-release monthly intramuscular injection suspension: Systemic absorption of the extended-release injection suspension is slow and prolonged due to low solubility of aripiprazole particles. Maximum plasma concentrations are attained at a median of 5 to 7 days. The mean elimination half-lives of the 300 mg and 400 mg dose administered every 4 weeks are 29.9 days and 46.5 days, respectively. Steady-state is attained by the fourth dose.
Abilify Asimtufii (aripiprazole) extended-release every 2 months intramuscular injection suspension: Plasma exposures at steady-state were compared to Abilify Maintena and found to be similar. Steady-state aripiprazole was attained by the fourth dose. The average plasma concentrations (Cavg) of aripiprazole were 263 ng/mL and 280 ng/mL for Abilify Asimtufii and Abilify Maintena, respectively. The Cmax of aripiprazole were 342 ng/mL and 344 ng/mL for Abilify Asimtufii and Abilify Maintena, respectively.
Aristada (aripiprazole lauroxil) extended-release intramuscular injection suspension: Aristada (aripiprazole lauroxil) is a pro-drug of aripiprazole. Following intramuscular (IM) administration, the drug is likely converted through enzyme-mediated hydrolysis to N-hydroxymethylaripiprazole, and then by water-mediated hydrolysis to aripiprazole. After a single intramuscular injection, aripiprazole appears in the systemic circulation in 5 to 6 days and continues to be released for an additional 36 days. The aripiprazole concentration increases with consecutive doses and reaches steady-state following the fourth monthly injection. With administration of oral aripiprazole for 21 days along with the first dose of Aristada injection, aripiprazole concentrations reach therapeutic concentrations within 4 days. Aripiprazole exposure is similar for deltoid and gluteal intramuscular injections of 441 mg. However, doses of 662 mg, 882 mg, or 1,064 mg require a gluteal injection. Administration of 882 mg IM every 6 weeks or 1,064 mg IM every 2 months results in plasma aripiprazole concentrations that are within the established therapeutic range for 441 mg and 882 mg IM monthly. The doses of 441 mg monthly and 882 monthly showed a similar clinical response to each other. The mean aripiprazole terminal elimination half-life ranged from 53.9 days to 57.2 days after monthly, 6-week, and 2 month injections of aripiprazole lauroxil. The difference in half-life between Aristada and oral aripiprazole is the result of the dissolution and formation rate-limited elimination of aripiprazole following Aristada administration.
Aristada Initio (aripiprazole lauroxil) single-dose extended-release intramuscular injection suspension: This dosage form exhibits different pharmacokinetic characteristics from the Aristada injection. Aristada Initio (aripiprazole lauroxil) is a pro-drug of aripiprazole. Following intramuscular (IM) administration, the drug is likely converted through enzyme-mediated hydrolysis to N-hydroxymethylaripiprazole, and then by water-mediated hydrolysis to aripiprazole. After a single intramuscular injection, aripiprazole appears in the systemic circulation on the day of the injection. The median time to reach peak plasma exposures is about 27 days (range: 16 to 35 days). When Aristada Initio is administered with a 30 mg oral dose of aripiprazole at the time of the first Aristada injection, relevant aripiprazole concentrations are attained within 4 days; the regimen negates the need to use oral aripiprazole dosing for 21 days along with the first Aristada injection. Aripiprazole exposure is similar between deltoid and gluteal intramuscular injections of Aristada Initio.


Hepatic Impairment

No dosage adjustment is required for any formulation of aripiprazole based on hepatic function (mild to severe hepatic impairment, Child-Pugh score between 5 and 15). Similar pharmacokinetic variables have been seen in all adult patient populations studied regardless of hepatic function.

Renal Impairment

No dosage adjustment is required for any formulation of aripiprazole based on renal function (mild to severe renal impairment, eGFR between 15 and 90 mL/minute). Similar pharmacokinetic variables have been seen in all adult patient populations studied regardless of renal function.

Pediatrics

The pharmacokinetic profile of aripiprazole and its metabolite dehydroaripiprazole in adolescents is similar to adults when corrected for body weight.

Geriatric

Similar pharmacokinetic variables have been seen in all adult patient populations studied regardless of age.

Gender Differences

No dosage adjustment is required for any formulation of aripiprazole based on gender. Similar pharmacokinetic variables have been seen in all adult patient populations studied regardless of gender.

Other

CYP2D6 Poor Metabolizers (CYP2D6 PMs)
Approximately 8% of White individuals and 3% to 8% of African American individuals lack the capacity to metabolize CYP2D6 substrates and are classified as poor metabolizers (PMs), whereas the rest are extensive metabolizers (EMs). Poor metabolizers have an approximate 80% increase in aripiprazole exposure and about a 30% decrease in exposure to the active metabolite compared to EMs. This results in about a 60% higher exposure to the total active moieties from a given dose of aripiprazole in PMs compared to EMs. Dosage adjustments are recommended in known CYP2D6 PMs due to high aripiprazole concentrations. The mean elimination half-lives are about 75 hours and 146 hours for aripiprazole (immediate-release formulas) in EMs and PMs, respectively.
 
Smoking
No dosage adjustment is required for any formulation of aripiprazole based on smoking status. Similar pharmacokinetic variables have been seen in all adult patient populations studied regardless of smoking status.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Oral Administration
Oral Solid Formulations

Oral immediate release tablets (e.g., Abilify):
May be administered without regard to meals.
 
Orally disintegrating tablets (e.g., Abilify DiscMelt):
Do not open the blister until ready to administer.
Do not push the tablet through the foil because this could damage it.
Place the tablet on the tongue and allow to dissolve. Tablet disintegration occurs rapidly in saliva.
Do not take with liquid unless it is necessary to do so. Do not divide the tablets in half.
May be administered without regard to meals.
 
Oral dissolving film (e.g., Mezofy, Opipza):
May administer without regard to meals.
Do not cut or split film.
Apply on top of the tongue and allow it to dissolve in saliva; the medication can then be swallowed without the need for water or other liquids.
The patient should refrain from chewing the film and should not swallow an undissolved film.
Administer only 1 film at a time. If an additional film is needed to complete the dosage, administer after the previous film has completely dissolved.
One product does not have films of less than 5 mg; use another product for patients needing dosages lower than 5 mg.
 
Oral tablets with sensor (e.g., Abilify Mycite):
General instructions:
Prior to patient use, the healthcare provider should facilitate the use of the product and its components (patch, application, portal) and ensure the patient is capable and willing to use smartphones and apps.
Before using any component of the system, instruct patients to download the Mycite app and follow all of the instructions for use and ensure that the app is compatible with the specific smartphone of the patient.
The system includes a web-based portal for healthcare providers and caregivers.
Advise patients that if their smartphone is lost, impaired, or disabled, some information collected by the system may be lost. If the patient's device is lost or disabled, the Mycite patch should be changed immediately and connected to a new mobile device using their current account information. Information previously synced to the patient's account will be available.
Mycite tablets:
May administer without regard to meals.
Swallow tablets whole; do not divide, crush, or chew.
The tablets are embedded with an Ingestible Event Marker (IEM) intended to track drug ingestion in conjunction with a wearable sensor (Mycite patch) and smartphone app.
Although most ingestion will be detected within 30 minutes, it may take up to two hours for the smartphone app and web portal to detect ingestion of the tablet. If the tablet is not detected after ingestion, do not repeat the dose.
It is not recommended to use the tablets to track drug ingestion in "real-time" or during an emergency because detection may be delayed or not occur.
Mycite patch:
The patch detects the signal from the IEM sensor embedded in the tablet after ingestion and transmits data to a smartphone.
Apply only when instructed by the Mycite smartphone application (Mycite app) to the left side of the body just above the lower edge of the rib cage.
Ensure that the app is paired with the patch prior to use. The status of the patch is indicated by a status icon in the app to inform the user that the patch is properly adhered and fully functioning.
Do not place the patch where the skin is scraped, cracked, inflamed, or irritated, or in an area that overlaps the most recently removed patch.
Do not remove the patch when showering, swimming, or exercising.
Change the patch weekly or sooner if needed. The app will prompt you to change the patch and will direct you to apply and remove the patch correctly.
Remove the patch when having an MRI and replace it with a new one as soon as possible. If there is skin irritation, remove the patch.


Oral Liquid Formulations

Oral solution:
Administer using a calibrated oral measuring device.
May be administered without regard to meals.
Storage: Opened bottles of aripiprazole oral solution can be used for up to 6 months after opening, but not beyond the expiration date on the bottle.


Injectable Administration


Visually inspect parenteral products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.


Intramuscular Administration

Ensure Correct Product Selection
Medication errors, including substitution and dispensing errors, may occur when selecting between the distinct extended-release aripiprazole intramuscular injections. Prescribers and health care professionals administering the drug should ensure correct formulation selection during prescribing and before administration. The various injections have distinct pharmacokinetic profiles.
 
Extended-release intramuscular injection (i.e., Abilify Maintena) Single-Use Vial Preparation, Reconstitution, and Administration
Preparation of adapter-syringe assembly:
For intramuscular (IM) use only. Do not administer intravenously or subcutaneously.
Remove cover from vial adapter package. Do not remove vial adapter from package. Using vial adapter package to handle the vial adapter, attach the prepackaged luer lock syringe to the vial adapter.
Use the luer lock syringe to remove the vial adapter from the package and discard the vial adapter package. Do not touch the spike tip of the adapter at any time.
Reconstitution and Dose preparation of single-use Vial for suspension:
Use appropriate aseptic technique and reconstitute at room temperature.
The lyophilized powder should be suspended with the 5 mL vial of Sterile Water for Injection supplied in the kit.
For the 400-mg vial, reconstitute with 1.9 mL of Sterile Water for Injection. For a 300-mg vial, reconstitute with 1.5 mL of Sterile Water for Injection.
Using the syringe with pre-attached hypodermic safety needle, withdraw pre-determined Sterile Water volume into the syringe.
Discard residual water that remains in the 5 mL vial of Sterile Water for Injection after reconstitution.
After slowly injecting the Sterile Water for Injection into the vial of lyophilized powder, withdraw air equal to pressure in the vial. Remove needle from the vial.
Engage the needle safety device using a one-handed technique. Gently press the sheath against a flat surface until the needle is firmly engaged in the needle protection sheath. Visually confirm that the needle is fully engaged into the needle protection sheath, and discard.
Shake the reconstituted vial vigorously for 30 seconds. The reconstituted suspension should be uniform, homogenous, opaque, and milky white in color.
Determine the recommended volume for injection.
Using the 400 mg reconstituted vial: 400 mg = 2 mL, 300 mg = 1.5 mL, 200 mg = 1 mL, 160 mg = 0.8 mL.
Using the 300 mg reconstituted vial: 300 mg = 1.5 mL, 200 mg = 1 mL, 160 mg = 0.8 mL.
Wipe top of the reconstituted vial with a sterile alcohol swab. Place and hold the reconstituted vial on a hard surface.
Attach the adapter-syringe assembly to vial by holding the outside of the adapter and pushing adapter's spike firmly through the rubber stopper until the adapter snaps in place.
Slowly withdraw recommended volume into the luer lock syringe. A small amount of excess product will remain in the vial.
Detach the luer lock syringe containing the suspension from the vial. Attach syringe to the appropriate needle based on injection site.
Deltoid: use the 23 gauge, 1-inch needle in non-obese patients and the 22 gauge, 1.5-inch needle in obese patients.
GLuteal: use the 22 gauge, 1.5-inch needle in non-obese patients and the 21 gauge, 2-inch needle in obese patients.
Ensure needle is firmly seated on safety device with a push and clockwise twist; pull the needle cap straight from the needle.
Dose Administration and Disposal once prepared from Vial:
For once-monthly deep intramuscular gluteal or deltoid injection by a health care professional only. Do not administer by any other route.
For single-use only. Discard any unused portion.
Use immediately after reconstitution and preparation of the syringe.
Slowly inject the recommended volume as a single deep IM injection into the gluteal or deltoid muscle.
Do not massage the injection site.
After the injection, engage the needle safety device using a one-handed technique. Gently press the sheath against a flat surface until the needle is firmly engaged in the needle protection sheath. Appropriately dispose of the vials, adapter, needles, and syringe.
Do not re-use any components of the kit.
For subsequent injections, rotate sites of injection between the two gluteal or deltoid muscles.
If not injected immediately, keep vial at room temperature and shake vigorously for at least 60 seconds to re-suspend before preparing the syringe for injection. Do not store suspension in a syringe.
Refer to the Administration Instructions section of the official product labeling for detailed visual aids which accompany the written instructions.
Missed dose:
If the second or third doses are missed and more than 4 weeks but less than 5 weeks have elapsed since the last injection, administer the injection as soon as possible.
If the second or third doses are missed and more than 5 weeks have elapsed since the last injection, restart concomitant oral aripiprazole for 14 days with the next administered injection.
If the fourth or subsequent doses are missed and more than 4 weeks but less than 6 weeks have elapsed since the last injection, administer the injection as soon as possible.
If the fourth or subsequent doses are missed and more than 6 weeks have elapsed since the last injection, restart concomitant oral aripiprazole for 14 days with the next administered injection.
 
Extended-release intramuscular injection (i.e., Abilify Maintena) Pre-Filled Dual Chamber Syringe Preparation, Reconstitution, Administration, and Disposal
For once-monthly deep intramuscular gluteal or deltoid injection by a health care professional only. Do not administer by any other route.
For single-use only. Discard any unused portion.
Use immediately after reconstitution and preparation of the pre-filled syringe.
Use appropriate aseptic technique and reconstitute at room temperature.
Push plunger rod slightly to engage threads. Then, rotate plunger rod until the rod stops rotating to release diluent.
After plunger rod is at complete stop, middle stopper will be at the indicator line.
Vertically shake the syringe vigorously for 20 seconds until the drug is uniformly milky-white. The reconstituted suspension should be opaque and milky white in color.
To inject, twist and pull off Over-cap and Tip-cap. Select the appropriate needle based on injection site.
Deltoid: use the 23 gauge, 1-inch needle in non-obese patients and the 22 gauge, 1.5-inch needle in obese patients.
Gluteal: use the 22 gauge, 1.5-inch needle in non-obese patients and the 21 gauge, 2-inch needle in obese patients.
While holding needle cap, ensure the needle is firmly seated on the safety device with a push; twist clockwise until snugly fitted. Pull needle-cap straight up.
Hold syringe upright and advance plunger rod slowly to expel the air until the suspension fills the needle base. If it's not possible to advance the plunger rod to expel the air, check that the plunger rod is rotated to a complete stop.
Slowly inject as a single deep IM injection into the gluteal or deltoid muscle.
Do not massage the injection site.
After the injection, engage the needle safety device. Immediately discard the used syringe and unused needle in an approved sharps container. The unused needle should not be saved for future use.
For subsequent injections, rotate sites of injection between the two gluteal or deltoid muscles.
Refer to the Administration Instructions section of the official product labeling for detailed visual aids which accompany the written instructions.
Missed dose:
If the second or third doses are missed and more than 4 weeks but less than 5 weeks have elapsed since the last injection, administer the injection as soon as possible.
If the second or third doses are missed and more than 5 weeks have elapsed since the last injection, restart concomitant oral aripiprazole for 14 days with the next administered injection.
If the fourth or subsequent doses are missed and more than 4 weeks but less than 6 weeks have elapsed since the last injection, administer the injection as soon as possible.
If the fourth or subsequent doses are missed and more than 6 weeks have elapsed since the last injection, restart concomitant oral aripiprazole for 14 days with the next administered injection.
 
Extended-release intramuscular injection (i.e., Abilify Asimtufii) Pre-Filled Syringe Preparation, Administration, and Disposal
To be prepared and administered by a health care professional only.
For use as a single intramuscular dose every 2-months by gluteal IM injection only. Do not administer by any other route.
Prior to administration, ensure suspension is a uniform, homogenous suspension that is opaque and milky-white in color. Do not use if suspension is discolored or particulate matter is present
Remove Abilify Asimtufii pre-filled syringe from the package.
Tap the syringe on your hand at least 10 times, then shake the syringe vigorously for at least 10 seconds until the medication is uniform.
Select needle size for gluteal injection based on patient body type.
For non-obese patients: 22-gauge, 1.5-inch safety needle with needle protection device (needle in black packaging)
For obese patients: 21-gauge, 2-inch safety needle with needle protection device (needle in green packaging)
Twist and pull off the pre-filled syringe tip-cap. While holding the base of the needle, ensure the needle is firmly seated on the safety device with a push. Gently twist clockwise until securely fitted.
When ready to administer the injection, hold the pre-filled syringe upright and remove the needle-cap straight up. Do not twist the needle-cap, as this may loosen the needle from the syringe.
Slowly advance the plunger rod upward to expel the air and until the suspension fills the needle base.
Slowly inject the entire contents of the pre-filled syringe IM into the gluteal muscle. Do not administer by any other route. Do not massage the injection site.
After the injection, press the safety shield on a hard surface to cover and lock the shield over the needle.
Immediately discard the used syringe and unused needle in an approved sharps container. The unused needle should not be saved for future use.
Missed dose:
If more than 8 weeks and less than 14 weeks have elapsed since the last injection, administer the next dose as soon as possible and resume the once every 2-month schedule.
If more than 14 weeks have elapsed since the last injection, restart concomitant oral aripiprazole for 14 days with the next administered injection.
 
Extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil intramuscular injection (i.e., Aristada)
General Administration Guidelines
For administration as a long-acting intramuscular injection by a health care professional. Do not administer by any other route.
Prior to administering Aristada, establish tolerability with oral aripiprazole in patients who have never taken aripiprazole. Due to the half-life of oral aripiprazole, it may take up to 2 weeks to fully assess tolerability.
The 441 mg dose may be administered in the deltoid or gluteal muscle, whereas all other doses (662 mg, 882 mg, and 1,064 mg) should be administered in the gluteal muscle.
When initiating Aristada in conjunction with a single dose of Aristada Initio 675 mg, avoid injecting both Aristada Initio and Aristada concurrently into the same deltoid or gluteal muscle.
The dose and dosing interval may be adjusted, taking into account the pharmacokinetics and prolonged-release characteristics of Aristada.
If early dosing is needed, the injection should not be given any earlier than 14 days after the previous injection. If the patient misses their scheduled dose, refer to the dosing and administration recommendations for patients which are determined by the length of time since the last injection.
Extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injection (i.e., Aristada) Pre-filled Syringe Preparation, Administration, and Disposal
The kit contains a pre-filled syringe with Aristada sterile aqueous suspension and 2 or 3 safety needles depending upon the dose.
Tap the syringe at least 10 times to dislodge any material which may have settled and shake vigorously for at least 30 seconds to ensure uniform suspension.
If the syringe is not used within 15 minutes, shake again for 30 seconds.
Select the injection needle based on injection site and dosage, as follows. For patients with a larger amount of subcutaneous tissue overlaying the injection site muscle, use the longer of the needles provided.
441 mg dose: Deltoid (21 gauge, 1-inch or 20 gauge, 1.5-inch), or Gluteal (20 gauge, 1.5-inch or 20 gauge, 2-inch).
662 mg dose: Gluteal (20 gauge, 1.5-inch or 20 gauge, 2-inch).
882 mg dose: Gluteal (20 gauge, 1.5-inch or 20 gauge, 2-inch).
1,064 mg dose: Gluteal (20 gauge, 1.5-inch or 20 gauge, 2-inch).
Attach the injection needle to the syringe securely with a clockwise twisting motion. Do not over-tighten, since this may lead to needle hub cracking.
Prime the syringe to remove air.
Bring the syringe into an upright position and tap the syringe to bring air to the top. Remove air by depressing the plunger rod. A few drops of suspension will be released.
Administer the entire contents of the syringe IM. Do not inject by any other route. Inject in a rapid and continuous manner (less than 10 seconds).
Cover the needle by pressing the safety device. Immediately discard the used syringe and unused needle in an approved sharps container. The unused needles should not be saved for future use.
Refer to the Administration Instructions section of the official product labeling for detailed visual aids which accompany the written instructions.
Missed dose:
If 6 weeks or less have elapsed since the last injection, no oral aripiprazole supplementation is required.
If more than 6 weeks but 7 weeks or less have elapsed since the last injection, supplement with a single dose of Aristada Initio or 7 days of oral aripiprazole at the same dose of oral aripiprazole as when the patient began Aristada.
If more than 7 weeks have elapsed since the last injection, reinitiate with a single dose of Aristada Initio and oral aripiprazole or supplement with 21 days of oral aripiprazole at the same dose as when the patient began Aristada.
For patients who miss a dose while receiving 441 mg/month
For patients who miss a dose while receiving 662 mg/month, 882 mg/month, or 882 mg every 6 weeks
If 8 weeks or less have elapsed since the last injection, no oral supplementation is required.
If more than 8 weeks but 12 weeks or less have elapsed since the last injection, supplement with a single dose of Aristada Initio or 7 days of oral aripiprazole at the same dose as when the patient began Aristada.
If more than 12 weeks have elapsed since the last injection, reinitiate with a single dose of Aristada Initio and oral aripiprazole or supplement with 21 days of oral aripiprazole at the same dose of oral aripiprazole as when the patient began Aristada.
For patients who miss a dose while receiving 1,064 mg IM every 2 months
If 10 weeks or less have elapsed since the last injection, no oral supplementation is required.
If more than 10 weeks but 12 weeks or less have elapsed since the last injection, supplement a single dose of Aristada Initio or with 7 days of oral aripiprazole at the same dose of oral aripiprazole as when the patient began Aristada.
If more than 12 weeks have elapsed since the last injection, reinitiate with a single dose of Aristada Initio and oral aripiprazole or supplement with 21 days of oral aripiprazole at the same dose as when the patient began Aristada.
 
Single-dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil intramuscular injection (i.e., Aristada Initio) Pre-filled Syringe Preparation, Administration, and Disposal
Aristada Initio is not interchangeable with Aristada due to differing pharmacokinetics.
For use as a single intramuscular dose in the deltoid or gluteal muscle in patients initiating Aristada or after a missed dose of Aristada. Do not inject by any other route.
The kit contains a syringe with a sterile suspension of 675 mg/2.4 mL of Aristada Initio and 3 safety needles (a 2-inch 20 gauge needle with yellow needle hub, a 1.5-inch 20 gauge needle with yellow needle hub, and a 1-inch 21 gauge needle with a green needle hub).
This product should only be administered by a health care professional.
Avoid injecting Aristada Initio and Aristada concurrently into the same deltoid or gluteal muscle.
Tap the syringe at least 10 times to dislodge any settled material and vigorously shake the syringe for at least 30 seconds to ensure a uniform suspension.
If the syringe is not used within 15 minutes, shake again for 30 seconds.
Select needle size based on injection site. For patients with a larger amount of subcutaneous tissue overlaying the injection site muscle, use the longer of the needles provided.
Deltoid: 21 gauge, 1-inch or 20 gauge, 1.5-inch.
Gluteal: 20 gauge 1.5-inch or 20 gauge, 2-inch.
Attach the injection needle to the syringe securely with a clockwise twisting motion. Do not overtighten, since this could lead to needle hub cracking.
Prime the syringe to remove air by bringing syringe into upright position and tapping, then depress the plunger rod to remove air until a few drops are released. Small air bubbles in the syringe are normal.
Inject IM in a rapid and continuous manner. Product requires a rapid injection; do not hesitate.
Cover the needle by pressing the safety device. Immediately discard the used syringe and unused needle in an approved sharps container. The unused needle should not be saved for future use.
Refer to the Administration Instructions section of the official product labeling for detailed visual aids which accompany the written instructions.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

30 mg/day PO tablets and oral film, and 25 mg/day PO oral solution; 400 mg/month extended-release IM (Abilify Maintena); 960 mg every 2 months extended-release IM (Abilify Asimtufii); 882 mg/month extended-release IM (Aristada); 675 mg IM single-dose administration (Aristada Initio).

Geriatric

30 mg/day PO tablets and oral film, and 25 mg/day PO oral solution; 400 mg/month extended-release IM (Abilify Maintena); 960 mg every 2 months extended-release IM (Abilify Asimtufii); 882 mg/month extended-release IM (Aristada); 675 mg IM single-dose administration (Aristada Initio), but safety and efficacy of Aristada and Aristada Initio have not established in geriatric adults older than 65 years.

Adolescents

Weighing 50 kg or more: 30 mg/day PO tablets and oral film, and 25 mg/day PO oral solution for schizophrenia and bipolar disorder; 15 mg/day PO for autism; 20 mg/day PO for Tourette's syndrome; safety and efficacy of the extended-release IM injections (Abilify Maintena, Abilify Asimtufii, Aristada, Aristada Initio) have not been established.
Weighing less than 50 kg: 30 mg/day PO tablets and oral film, and 25 mg/day PO oral solution; 15 mg/day PO for autism; 10 mg/day PO for Tourette's syndrome; safety and efficacy of the extended-release IM injections (Abilify Maintena, Abilify Asimtufii, Aristada, Aristada Initio) have not been established.

Children

10 to 12 years and weighing 50 kg or more: 30 mg/day PO tablets and 25 mg/day PO oral solution for bipolar disorder; 15 mg/day PO for autism; 20 mg/day PO for Tourette's syndrome; not indicated for schizophrenia.
10 to 12 years and weighing less than 50 kg: 30 mg/day PO tablets and 25 mg/day PO oral solution for bipolar disorder; 15 mg/day PO for autism; 10 mg/day PO for Tourette's syndrome; not indicated for schizophrenia.
6 to 9 years and weighing 50 kg or more: 15 mg/day PO for autism; 20 mg/day PO for Tourette's syndrome; not indicated for bipolar disorder or schizophrenia.
6 to 9 years weighing less than 50 kg: 15 mg/day PO for autism; 10 mg/day PO for Tourette's syndrome; not indicated for bipolar disorder or schizophrenia.
Less than 6 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Not indicated.

Neonates

Not indicated.

Dosage Forms

Abilify 10mg Tablet

Abilify 15mg Tablet

Abilify 20mg Tablet

Abilify 2mg Tablet

Abilify 30mg Tablet

Abilify 5mg Tablet

Abilify Asimtufii 720mg Extended-Release Suspension for Injection

Abilify Asimtufii 960mg Extended-Release Suspension for Injection

Abilify Maintena 300mg Dual Chamber Extended-Release Powder for Suspension for Injection

Abilify Maintena 300mg Extended-Release Powder for Suspension for Injection

Abilify Maintena 300mg Extended-Release Powder for Suspension for Injection

Abilify Maintena 400mg Dual Chamber Extended-Release Powder for Suspension for Injection

Abilify Maintena 400mg Extended-Release Powder for Suspension for Injection

Abilify MyCite 30 Day Starter Kit 10mg Tablet

Abilify MyCite 30 Day Starter Kit 15mg Tablet

Abilify MyCite 30 Day Starter Kit 20mg Tablet

Abilify MyCite 30 Day Starter Kit 2mg Tablet

Abilify MyCite 30 Day Starter Kit 30mg Tablet

Abilify MyCite 30 Day Starter Kit 5mg Tablet

Abilify MyCite Maintenance Kit 10mg Tablet

Abilify MyCite Maintenance Kit 15mg Tablet

Abilify MyCite Maintenance Kit 20mg Tablet

Abilify MyCite Maintenance Kit 2mg Tablet

Abilify MyCite Maintenance Kit 30mg Tablet

Abilify MyCite Maintenance Kit 5mg Tablet

Aripiprazole 10mg Oral disintegrating tablet

Aripiprazole 10mg Oral tablet

Aripiprazole 15mg Oral disintegrating tablet

Aripiprazole 15mg Oral tablet

Aripiprazole 1mg/1mL Oral solution

Aripiprazole 20mg Oral tablet

Aripiprazole 2mg Oral tablet

Aripiprazole 30mg Oral tablet

Aripiprazole 5mg Oral tablet

Aristada 1064mg/3.9mL Extended-Release Suspension for Injection

Aristada 441mg/1.6mL Extended-Release Suspension for Injection

Aristada 662mg/2.4mL Extended-Release Suspension for Injection

Aristada 882mg/3.2mL Extended-Release Suspension for Injection

Aristada Initio 675mg/2.4mL Extended-Release Suspension for Injection

OPIPZA 10mg Oral Film

OPIPZA 2mg Oral Film

OPIPZA 5mg Oral Film

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

No dosage adjustment for oral or parenteral aripiprazole is required on the basis of hepatic function (mild to severe hepatic impairment, Child-Pugh score between 5 and 15).

Renal Impairment

No dosage adjustment for oral or parenteral aripiprazole is required on the basis of renal function (mild to severe renal impairment, eGFR between 15 and 90 mL/minute).
 
Intermittent hemodialysis
Hemodialysis is unlikely to be effective in removing aripiprazole since the drug is highly bound to plasma proteins.

© 2026 Elsevier