=== Remimazolam (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5234)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Remimazolam is an intravenous benzodiazepine indicated for the induction and maintenance of procedural sedation in adults undergoing procedures lasting 30 minutes or less.

Routes: injection (IV/IM/SC); Common adult doses: 5 mg/dose IV for sedation induction; 2.5 mg/dose IV for sedation maintenance.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): bradycardia, hypertension, hypotension, sinus tachycardia

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Remimazolam is also contraindicated in individuals with a history of severe hypersensitivity reaction to dextran 40 or products containing dextran 40.

Brand Names
  - BYFAVO

Dosage Forms
  - BYFAVO 20mg Powder for Injection

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Related Indications
      Heading
      for procedural sedation induction
      Routes
        Heading
        Intravenous dosage
        Route Age Groups
          Heading
          Adults classified as ASA-PS I or II
          Dosage Description
          5 mg IV over 1 minute. Peak sedation occurs in approximately 3 to 3.5 minutes.
          Heading
          Adults classified as ASA-PS III and IV
          Dosage Description
          2.5 to 5 mg IV over 1 minute. Peak sedation occurs in approximately 3 to 3.5 minutes after an initial 5 mg dose.
      Heading
      for procedural sedation maintenance
      Routes
        Heading
        Intravenous dosage
        Route Age Groups
          Heading
          Adults classified as ASA-PS I or II
          Dosage Description
          2.5 mg IV over 15 seconds every 2 minutes as needed. Titrate to desired clinical response.
          Heading
          Adults classified as ASA-PS III and IV
          Dosage Description
          1.25 to 2.5 mg IV over 15 seconds every 2 minutes as needed. Titrate to desired clinical response.
    Routes
    Heading
    For procedural sedation induction and maintenance for procedures lasting 30 minutes or less

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Remimazolam is also contraindicated in individuals with a history of severe hypersensitivity reaction to dextran 40 or products containing dextran 40.
    Headline
    ASA physical status class 3, ASA physical status class 4, coadministration with certain medications, obstructive sleep apnea, requires a specialized care setting, requires an experienced clinician
    General Information
    Remimazolam use requires an experienced clinician trained in the administration of procedural sedation, and not involved in the conduct of the diagnostic or therapeutic procedure. Administering personnel must be trained in the detection and management of airway obstruction, hypoventilation, and apnea, including the maintenance of a patent airway, supportive ventilation, and cardiovascular resuscitation. Remimazolam use also requires a specialized care setting where resuscitative drugs, including a benzodiazepine reversal agent (i.e., flumazenil), and age- and size-appropriate bag/valve/mask assisted ventilation is immediately available during remimazolam administration. Coadministration with certain medications, specifically opioid analgesics and other sedative-hypnotics, may result in profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death. Consider the potential for worsened cardiorespiratory depression before using remimazolam concomitantly with other drugs that have the same potential. Titrate the dose of remimazolam when administered with opioids and sedative-hypnotics to the desired clinical response. A lower remimazolam dose may be appropriate for individuals with American Society of Anesthesiology (ASA) physical status class 3 or 4. Cardiorespiratory adverse effects may be more likely to occur in individuals with obstructive sleep apnea, geriatric age, ASA physical status class 3, or ASA physical status class 4. Continuously monitor vital signs and for early signs of hypotension, oxygen desaturation, hypoventilation, airway obstruction, and apnea using capnography, pulse oximetry, and clinical assessment during remimazolam sedation and through the recovery period. Administer supplemental oxygen to sedated individuals through the recovery period.
    Headline
    hepatic failure
    General Information
    Carefully titrate remimazolam to effect in individuals with severe hepatic impairment or hepatic failure. A lower frequency of supplemental doses may be needed to achieve the level of sedation required for the procedure, depending on the overall status of the individual. Monitor for sedation-related cardiorespiratory complications.
    Headline
    children, infants, neonates
    General Information
    Repeated or lengthy use of general anesthetic and sedation drugs during surgeries or procedures in neonates, infants, and children younger than 3 years, including in utero exposure during the third trimester, may have negative effects on brain development. Consider the benefits of appropriate anesthesia in young children against the potential risks, especially for procedures that may last more than 3 hours or if multiple procedures are required during the first 3 years of life. It may be appropriate to delay certain procedures if doing so will not jeopardize the health of the child. No specific anesthetic or sedation drug has been shown to be safer than another. Human studies suggest that a single short exposure to a general anesthetic in young children is unlikely to have negative effects on behavior and learning; however, further research is needed to fully characterize how anesthetic exposure affects brain development.
    Headline
    geriatric
    General Information
    Some data suggest a potential of greater sensitivity (a faster onset of loss of consciousness and a longer duration of sedation) to remimazolam in some older individuals. Administer supplemental doses of remimazolam slowly in the geriatric adult to achieve the level of sedation required for the procedure, and monitor for cardiorespiratory complications. Cardiorespiratory adverse effects may be more likely to occur in geriatric adults.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Benzodiazepines cross the placenta. Neonates exposed to benzodiazepines during late pregnancy, including during labor and delivery, may experience symptoms of sedation. Those with prolonged exposure during late pregnancy may experience withdrawal after delivery. Published data from observational studies of benzodiazepine use during pregnancy have not established a drug-associated risk of major birth defects. Early studies suggested an increased risk of congenital malformations with diazepam and chlordiazepoxide use. However, more recent case-control and cohort studies of benzodiazepine use during pregnancy, adjusted for confounding exposures to other substances, have not confirmed these findings. Repeated or lengthy use of general anesthetic and sedation drugs during surgeries or procedures during the third trimester of pregnancy may have negative effects on fetal brain development. Consider the benefits of appropriate anesthesia in pregnant people against the potential risks, especially for procedures that may last more than 3 hours or if multiple procedures are required prior to delivery. It may be appropriate to delay certain procedures if doing so will not jeopardize the health of the child and/or pregnant person. No specific anesthetic or sedation drug has been shown to be safer than another. Human studies suggest that a single short exposure to a general anesthetic in young pediatric patients is unlikely to have negative effects on behavior and learning; however, further research is needed to fully characterize how anesthetic exposure affects brain development.
    Headline
    neonates and infants exposed to this medication in utero
    General Information
    Monitor neonates and infants exposed to this medication in utero for symptoms of withdrawal, such as hyperreflexia, irritability, restlessness, tremors, inconsolable crying, and feeding difficulties. In neonates exposed during late pregnancy, including during labor and delivery, monitor for sedation, including respiratory depression, lethargy, and hypotonia. If symptoms are present, manage accordingly.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use remimazolam with caution during breast-feeding. Remimazolam is present in animal milk. Monitor exposed children for excessive sedation, slowed breathing rate, poor feeding, and inadequate weight gain. Withdrawal may occur in those with long-term exposure to benzodiazepines. This may occur with cessation of breast-feeding or cessation of the medication in the breast-feeding person. To minimize exposure in the breastfed child, consider pumping and discarding breast milk during and for 5 hours (approximately 5 elimination half-lives) after remimazolam administration.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Benzodiazepines cross the placenta. Neonates exposed to benzodiazepines during late pregnancy, including during labor and delivery, may experience symptoms of sedation. Those with prolonged exposure during late pregnancy may experience withdrawal after delivery. Published data from observational studies of benzodiazepine use during pregnancy have not established a drug-associated risk of major birth defects. Early studies suggested an increased risk of congenital malformations with diazepam and chlordiazepoxide use. However, more recent case-control and cohort studies of benzodiazepine use during pregnancy, adjusted for confounding exposures to other substances, have not confirmed these findings. Repeated or lengthy use of general anesthetic and sedation drugs during surgeries or procedures during the third trimester of pregnancy may have negative effects on fetal brain development. Consider the benefits of appropriate anesthesia in pregnant people against the potential risks, especially for procedures that may last more than 3 hours or if multiple procedures are required prior to delivery. It may be appropriate to delay certain procedures if doing so will not jeopardize the health of the child and/or pregnant person. No specific anesthetic or sedation drug has been shown to be safer than another. Human studies suggest that a single short exposure to a general anesthetic in young pediatric patients is unlikely to have negative effects on behavior and learning; however, further research is needed to fully characterize how anesthetic exposure affects brain development.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use remimazolam with caution during breast-feeding. Remimazolam is present in animal milk. Monitor exposed children for excessive sedation, slowed breathing rate, poor feeding, and inadequate weight gain. Withdrawal may occur in those with long-term exposure to benzodiazepines. This may occur with cessation of breast-feeding or cessation of the medication in the breast-feeding person. To minimize exposure in the breastfed child, consider pumping and discarding breast milk during and for 5 hours (approximately 5 elimination half-lives) after remimazolam administration.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with remimazolam may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with remimazolam may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Acetaminophen; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Acetaminophen; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with remimazolam may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with remimazolam may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation. Reduce the initial oxycodone dosage by one-third to one-half when using the extended-release tablets.
Acetaminophen; Pamabrom; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Acetaminophen; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
ALFentanil: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with remimazolam may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation.
ALPRAZolam: (Major) The sedative effect of remimazolam can be accentuated by alprazolam. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation.
Amitriptyline: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant use with tricyclic antidepressants, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Additive CNS depression may occur.
Amobarbital: (Major) The sedative effect of remimazolam can be accentuated by barbiturates. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation.
Amoxapine: (Moderate) Amoxapine may enhance the response to the effects of benzodiazepines and other CNS depressants. Patients should be warned of the possibility of drowsiness that may impair performance of potentially hazardous tasks such as driving an automobile or operating machinery.
Apomorphine: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and benzodiazepines could result in additive depressant effects.
Apraclonidine: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including barbiturates or benzodiazepines.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of aripiprazole and benzodiazepines. Intensity of sedation and orthostatic hypotension were greater with the combination of oral aripiprazole and lorazepam compared to aripiprazole alone.
Asenapine: (Moderate) Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with asenapine, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness. Caution should be used when asenapine is given in combination with other centrally-acting medications including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics (including barbiturates), buprenorphine, buprenorphine; naloxone, butorphanol, dronabinol, THC, nabilone, nalbuphine, opiate agonists, pentazocine, acetaminophen; pentazocine, aspirin, ASA; pentazocine, and pentazocine; naloxone.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) The sedative effect of remimazolam can be accentuated by barbiturates. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with remimazolam may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation. (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with remimazolam may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation. Reduce the initial oxycodone dosage by one-third to one-half when using the extended-release tablets.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with CNS-depressant drugs, such as diphenoxylate/difenoxin, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent.
Azelastine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of azelastine and benzodiazepines. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Azelastine; Fluticasone: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of azelastine and benzodiazepines. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Baclofen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Barbiturates: (Major) The sedative effect of remimazolam can be accentuated by barbiturates. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation.
Belladonna; Opium: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with remimazolam may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with remimazolam may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation.
Benztropine: (Moderate) CNS depressants, such as anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, can increase the sedative effects of benztropine.
Brexanolone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of brexanolone with CNS depressants like the benzodiazepines may increase the likelihood or severity of adverse reactions related to sedation and additive CNS depression. Monitor for excessive sedation, dizziness, and a potential for loss of consciousness during brexanolone use.
Brimonidine: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics including benzodiazepines.
Brimonidine; Brinzolamide: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics including benzodiazepines.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics including benzodiazepines.
Brompheniramine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Buprenorphine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists-antagonists with remimazolam may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists-antagonists with remimazolam may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) The sedative effect of remimazolam can be accentuated by barbiturates. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) The sedative effect of remimazolam can be accentuated by barbiturates. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with remimazolam may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation. (Major) The sedative effect of remimazolam can be accentuated by barbiturates. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with remimazolam may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation. (Major) The sedative effect of remimazolam can be accentuated by barbiturates. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Butorphanol: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists-antagonists with remimazolam may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation.
Caffeine: (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Caffeine; Sodium Benzoate: (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Calcium, Magnesium, Potassium, Sodium Oxybates: (Contraindicated) Sodium oxybate should not be used in combination with CNS depressant anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics or other sedative CNS depressant drugs. Specifically, sodium oxybate use is contraindicated in patients being treated with sedative hypnotic drugs. Sodium oxybate (GHB) has the potential to impair cognitive and motor skills. For example, the concomitant use of barbiturates and benzodiazepines increases sleep duration and may contribute to rapid onset, pronounced CNS depression, respiratory depression, or coma when combined with sodium oxybate.
Capsaicin; Metaxalone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Carbachol; Brimonidine: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics including benzodiazepines.
Carbidopa; Levodopa: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Carbidopa; Levodopa; Entacapone: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Carbinoxamine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Cariprazine: (Moderate) Due to the CNS effects of cariprazine, caution should be used when cariprazine is given in combination with other centrally-acting medications including benzodiazepines and other anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Carisoprodol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with remimazolam may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation.
Cenobamate: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of cenobamate and benzodiazepines. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Cetirizine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with benzodiazepines should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with benzodiazepines should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Chlophedianol; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Chlorcyclizine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
chlordiazePOXIDE: (Major) The sedative effect of remimazolam can be accentuated by chlordiazepoxide. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant use with tricyclic antidepressants, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Additive CNS depression may occur. (Major) The sedative effect of remimazolam can be accentuated by chlordiazepoxide. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Major) The sedative effect of remimazolam can be accentuated by chlordiazepoxide. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation.
Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with remimazolam may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation. (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with remimazolam may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation. (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
chlorproMAZINE: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Chlorzoxazone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Cisapride: (Moderate) Cisapride may enhance the sedative effects of benzodiazepines. Patients should not drive or operate heavy machinery until they know how the combination affects them. Patient counseling is important, as cisapride alone does not cause drowsiness or affect psychomotor function.
Clemastine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
cloBAZam: (Major) Use clobazam with other benzodiazepines with caution due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
clomiPRAMINE: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant use with tricyclic antidepressants, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Additive CNS depression may occur.
clonazePAM: (Major) The sedative effect of remimazolam can be accentuated by clonazepam. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation.
cloNIDine: (Moderate) Clonidine has CNS depressive effects and can potentiate the actions of other CNS depressants including benzodiazepines.
Clorazepate: (Major) The sedative effect of remimazolam can be accentuated by clorazepate. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) If concurrent therapy with clozapine and a benzodiazepine is necessary, it is advisable to begin with the lowest possible benzodiazepine dose and closely monitor the patient, particularly at initiation of treatment and following dose increases. Although the combination has been used safely, adverse reactions such as confusion, ataxia, somnolence, delirium, collapse, cardiac arrest, respiratory arrest, and death have occurred rarely in patients receiving clozapine concurrently or following benzodiazepine therapy. Several benzodiazepines, including clonazepam, oxazepam, flurazepam, diazepam, clobazam, flunitrazepam, and lorazepam have been implicated in these reactions. At least one case of sudden death was reported following intravenous administration of lorazepam to a patient receiving clozapine.
Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with remimazolam may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with remimazolam may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation. (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with remimazolam may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with remimazolam may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with remimazolam may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation. (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression. (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with remimazolam may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation. (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
COMT inhibitors: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Cyclobenzaprine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Cyproheptadine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Dantrolene: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Daridorexant: (Major) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during use of daridorexant with remimazolam. Dosage adjustments may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. Use of more than 2 hypnotics should be avoided due to the additive CNS depressant and complex sleep-related behaviors that may occur. While anxiolytic medications may be used concurrently with daridorexant, a reduction in dose of one or both agents may be needed. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if daridorexant is taken with other CNS depressants.
Desflurane: (Moderate) Concurrent use with benzodiazepines can decrease the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of desflurane needed to produce anesthesia.
Desipramine: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant use with tricyclic antidepressants, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Additive CNS depression may occur.
Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Dexchlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of dexmedetomidine and benzodiazepines may result in additive CNS depression. A reduction in dosage of dexmedetomidine or the benzodiazepine may be required.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
diazePAM: (Major) The sedative effect of remimazolam can be accentuated by diazepam. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation.
Dicyclomine: (Moderate) Dicyclomine can cause drowsiness, so it should be used cautiously in patients receiving CNS depressants like benzodiazepines.
Difelikefalin: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
dimenhyDRINATE: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with CNS-depressant drugs, such as diphenoxylate/difenoxin, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent.
Doxepin: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant use with tricyclic antidepressants, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Additive CNS depression may occur.
Doxylamine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Doxylamine; Pyridoxine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Use caution if the use of benzodiazepines are necessary with dronabinol, and monitor for additive dizziness, confusion, somnolence, and other CNS effects.
droPERidol: (Major) Droperidol administration is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes. In December 2001, the FDA issued a black box warning regarding the use of droperidol and its association with QT prolongation and potential for cardiac arrhythmias based on post-marketing surveillance data. Risk factors for the development of prolonged QT syndrome may include the use of benzodiazepines. Also, droperidol and benzodiazepines can both cause CNS depression. If used with a benzodiazepine, droperidol should be initiated at a low dose and adjusted upward, with caution, as needed to achieve the desired effect.
Entacapone: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Ergotamine; Caffeine: (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Esketamine: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and benzodiazepines for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Estazolam: (Major) The sedative effect of remimazolam can be accentuated by estazolam. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation.
Eszopiclone: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with eszopiclone can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. The concurrent use of eszopiclone with other anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics at bedtime or in the middle of the night is not recommended. In addition, the risk of next-day psychomotor impairment is increased during co-administration of eszopiclone and other CNS depressants, which may decrease the ability to perform tasks requiring full mental alertness such as driving. If used together, a reduction in the dose of one or both drugs may be needed.
Etomidate: (Moderate) Concomitant administration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent.
Fenfluramine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of fenfluramine and benzodiazepines. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
fentaNYL: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with remimazolam may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation.
Flumazenil: (Major) Flumazenil competes with benzodiazepines for binding at the GABA/benzodiazepine-receptor complex, the specific binding site of benzodiazepines. Because binding at the receptor is competitive and flumazenil has a much shorter duration of action than do most benzodiazepines, it is possible for the effects of flumazenil to dissipate sooner than the effects of the benzodiazepine. Flumazenil does not affect the pharmacokinetics of the benzodiazepines. Abrupt awakening can cause dysphoria, agitation, and possibly increased adverse effects. If administered to patients who have received a benzodiazepine chronically, abrupt interruption of benzodiazepine agonism by flumazenil can induce benzodiazepine withdrawal including seizures. Flumazenil has minimal effects on benzodiazepine-induced respiratory depression; suitable ventilatory support should be available, especially in treating acute benzodiazepine overdose. Flumazenil does not reverse the actions of barbiturates, opiate agonists, or tricyclic antidepressants.
fluPHENAZine: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Flurazepam: (Major) The sedative effect of remimazolam can be accentuated by flurazepam. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation.
Food: (Major) Advise patients to avoid cannabis use while taking CNS depressants due to the risk for additive CNS depression and potential for other cognitive adverse reactions.
Foscarbidopa; Foslevodopa: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Gabapentin: (Major) Concomitant use of benzodiazepines with gabapentin may cause excessive sedation, somnolence, and respiratory depression. If concurrent use is necessary, initiate gabapentin at the lowest recommended dose and monitor patients for symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression and respiratory depression.
General anesthetics: (Moderate) Concomitant administration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent.
guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
guanFACINE: (Moderate) Guanfacine has been associated with sedative effects and can potentiate the actions of other CNS depressants including benzodiazepines.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with remimazolam may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation.
HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with remimazolam may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with remimazolam may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation.
HYDROmorphone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with remimazolam may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation.
hydrOXYzine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Iloperidone: (Moderate) Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with iloperidone, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness. Caution should be used when iloperidone is given in combination with other centrally-acting medications including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Imipramine: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant use with tricyclic antidepressants, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Additive CNS depression may occur.
Isocarboxazid: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of benzodiazepines and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Isoflurane: (Moderate) Concomitant administration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent.
Ketamine: (Moderate) Concomitant administration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent.
Lasmiditan: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lasmiditan and benzodiazepines. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Lemborexant: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during use of lemborexant with benzodiazepines. Dosage adjustments may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. Use of more than 2 hypnotics should be avoided due to the additive CNS depressant and complex sleep-related behaviors that may occur. While anxiolytic medications may be used concurrently with lemborexant, a reduction in dose of one or both agents may be needed. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if lemborexant is taken with other CNS depressants.
Levocetirizine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with benzodiazepines should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Levodopa: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Levomilnacipran: (Moderate) Concurrent use of many CNS active drugs, including benzodiazepines, with levomilnacipran has not been evaluated by the manufacturer. Therefore, caution is advisable when combining anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics or other psychoactive medications with levomilnacipran.
Levorphanol: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with remimazolam may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation. Reduce the initial dose of levorphanol by approximately 50% or more.
Lofexidine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive hypotension and sedation during coadministration of lofexidine and benzodiazepines. Lofexidine can potentiate the effects of CNS depressants such as benzodiazepines.
LORazepam: (Major) The sedative effect of remimazolam can be accentuated by lorazepam. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation.
Lumateperone: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lumateperone and benzodiazepines. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Lurasidone: (Moderate) Due to the CNS effects of lurasidone, caution should be used when lurasidone is given in combination with other centrally acting medications such as anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including benzodiazepines. In one study, co-administration of lurasidone and midazolam increased the Cmax and AUC of midazolam by about 21% and 44%, respectively, compared to midazolam alone; however, dosage adjustment of midazolam based upon pharmacokinetic parameters is not required during concurrent use of lurasidone.
Meclizine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Melatonin: (Major) Use caution when combining melatonin with the benzodiazepines; when the benzodiazepine is used for sleep, co-use of melatonin should be avoided. Use of more than 1 agent for hypnotic purposes may increase the risk for over-sedation, CNS effects, or sleep-related behaviors. Be alert for unusual changes in moods or behaviors. Use caution when combining melatonin with benzodiazepines for other uses. Patients reporting unusual sleep-related behaviors should likely discontinue melatonin use. In animal studies, melatonin has been shown to increase benzodiazepine binding to receptor sites. In one case report, a benzodiazepine-dependent woman with an 11 year history of insomnia weaned and discontinued her benzodiazepine prescription within a few days without rebound insomnia or apparent benzodiazepine withdrawal when melatonin was given. In another case report, the ingestion of excessive melatonin along with normal doses of chlordiazepoxide and an antidepressant resulted in lethargy and short-term amnestic responses. Both cases suggest additive pharmacodynamic effects. In a clinical trial, there was clear evidence for a transitory pharmacodynamic interaction between melatonin and another hypnotic agent one hour following co-dosing. Concomitant administration resulted in increased impairment of attention, memory and coordination compared to the hypnotic agent alone.
Meperidine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with remimazolam may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation.
Meprobamate: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with meprobamate can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. If used together, a reduction in the dose of one or both drugs may be needed.
Metaxalone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Methadone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with remimazolam may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation.
Methocarbamol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of benzodiazepines and other CNS active medications including skeletal muscle relaxants, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. Lower doses of one or both agents may be required. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given.
Methohexital: (Major) The sedative effect of remimazolam can be accentuated by barbiturates. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation.
Methscopolamine: (Moderate) CNS depression can be increased when methscopolamine is combined with other CNS depressants such as any anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Methyldopa: (Moderate) Methyldopa is associated with sedative effects. Methyldopa can potentiate the effects of CNS depressants such as barbiturates, benzodiazepines, opiate agonists, or phenothiazines when administered concomitantly.
Metoclopramide: (Minor) Combined use of metoclopramide and other CNS depressants, such as anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, can increase possible sedation.
metyraPONE: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as benzodiazepines, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
metyroSINE: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of metyrosine with benzodiazepines can result in additive sedative effects.
Midazolam: (Major) The sedative effect of remimazolam can be accentuated by midazolam. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation.
Milnacipran: (Moderate) Concurrent use of many CNS-active drugs with milnacipran or levomilnacipran has not been evaluated by the manufacturer. Therefore, caution is advisable when combining anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics or other psychoactive medications with these medications.
Minocycline: (Minor) Injectable minocycline contains magnesium sulfate heptahydrate. Because of the CNS-depressant effects of magnesium sulfate, additive central-depressant effects can occur following concurrent administration with CNS depressants such as benzodiazepines. Caution should be exercised when using these agents concurrently.
Mirtazapine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of benzodiazepines and mirtazapine due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of benzodiazepines and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Morphine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with remimazolam may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation. For extended-release morphine tablets (MS Contin and Morphabond), start with 15 mg every 12 hours. Morphine; naltrexone should be initiated at one-third to one-half the recommended starting dosage.
Nalbuphine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists-antagonists with remimazolam may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation.
Nitroglycerin: (Minor) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as benzodiazepines. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin is used concurrently with benzodiazepines.
Nortriptyline: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant use with tricyclic antidepressants, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Additive CNS depression may occur.
Oliceridine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with remimazolam may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation.
Opiate Agonists-Antagonists: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists-antagonists with remimazolam may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation.
Opicapone: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Oxazepam: (Major) The sedative effect of remimazolam can be accentuated by oxazepam. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation.
oxyCODONE: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with remimazolam may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation. Reduce the initial oxycodone dosage by one-third to one-half when using the extended-release tablets.
oxyMORphone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with remimazolam may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation. Reduce the initial oxymorphone dosage by one-third to one-half.
Paliperidone: (Moderate) Drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as benzodiazepines, can increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness when coadministered with paliperidone. Monitor for signs and symptoms of CNS depression and advise patients to avoid driving or engaging in other activities requiring mental alertness until they know how this combination affects them.
Papaverine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of papaverine with potent CNS depressants such as benzodiazepines could lead to enhanced sedation.
Pentazocine; Naloxone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists-antagonists with remimazolam may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation.
PENTobarbital: (Major) The sedative effect of remimazolam can be accentuated by barbiturates. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation.
Perampanel: (Moderate) Patients taking benzodiazepines with perampanel may experience increased CNS depression. Monitor patients for adverse effects; dose adjustment of either drug may be necessary. Use of midazolam in healthy subjects who received perampanel 6 mg once daily for 20 days decreased the AUC and Cmax of midazolam by 13% and 15%, respectively, possibly due to weak induction of CYP3A4 by perampanel; the specific clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Perphenazine: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression. (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant use with tricyclic antidepressants, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Additive CNS depression may occur.
Phenelzine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of benzodiazepines and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
PHENobarbital: (Major) The sedative effect of remimazolam can be accentuated by barbiturates. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) The sedative effect of remimazolam can be accentuated by barbiturates. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation. (Moderate) Scopolamine may cause dizziness and drowsiness. Concurrent use of scopolamine and CNS depressants can adversely increase the risk of CNS depression.
Phenothiazines: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Moderate) Topiramate has the potential to cause CNS depression as well as other cognitive and/or neuropsychiatric adverse reactions. The CNS depressant effects of topiramate can be potentiated pharmacodynamically by concurrent use of CNS depressant agents such as the benzodiazepines.
Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Pimozide: (Moderate) Due to the effects of pimozide on cognition, it should be used cautiously with other CNS depressants including benzodiazepines.
Pramipexole: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with CNS-depressant drugs, including pramipexole, can potentiate the CNS effects.
Prasterone, Dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA (Dietary Supplements): (Major) Prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA may inhibit the metabolism of benzodiazepines (e.g., alprazolam, estazolam, midazolam) which undergo CYP3A4-mediated metabolism. In one study of elderly volunteers, half of the patients received DHEA 200 mg/day PO for 2 weeks, followed by a single dose of triazolam 0.25 mg. Triazolam clearance was reduced by close to 30% in the DHEA-pretreated patients vs. the control group; however, the effect of DHEA on CYP3A4 metabolism appeared to vary widely among subjects. While more study is needed, benzodiazepine-induced CNS sedation and other adverse effects might be increased in some individuals if DHEA is co-administered.
Prasterone, Dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA (FDA-approved): (Major) Prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA may inhibit the metabolism of benzodiazepines (e.g., alprazolam, estazolam, midazolam) which undergo CYP3A4-mediated metabolism. In one study of elderly volunteers, half of the patients received DHEA 200 mg/day PO for 2 weeks, followed by a single dose of triazolam 0.25 mg. Triazolam clearance was reduced by close to 30% in the DHEA-pretreated patients vs. the control group; however, the effect of DHEA on CYP3A4 metabolism appeared to vary widely among subjects. While more study is needed, benzodiazepine-induced CNS sedation and other adverse effects might be increased in some individuals if DHEA is co-administered.
Pregabalin: (Major) Concomitant use of benzodiazepines with pregabalin may cause excessive sedation, somnolence, and respiratory depression. If concurrent use is necessary, initiate pregabalin at the lowest recommended dose and monitor patients for symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression and respiratory depression.
Primidone: (Major) The sedative effect of remimazolam can be accentuated by barbiturates. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation.
Procarbazine: (Minor) CNS depressants benzodiazepines can potentiate the CNS depression caused by procarbazine therapy, so these drugs should be used together cautiously.
Prochlorperazine: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Promethazine: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression. (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Propofol: (Moderate) Concomitant administration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent.
Protriptyline: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant use with tricyclic antidepressants, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Additive CNS depression may occur.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Quazepam: (Major) The sedative effect of remimazolam can be accentuated by quazepam. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation.
Ramelteon: (Moderate) Ramelteon is a sleep-promoting agent; therefore, additive pharmacodynamic effects are possible when combining ramelteon with benzodiazepines or other miscellaneous anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics. Pharmacokinetic interactions have been observed with the use of zolpidem. Use of ramelteon 8 mg/day for 11 days and a single dose of zolpidem 10 mg resulted in an increase in the median Tmax of zolpidem of about 20 minutes; exposure to zolpidem was unchanged. Ramelteon use with hypnotics of any kind is considered duplicative therapy and these drugs are generally not co-administered.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of MAOIs can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including buprenorphine, butorphanol, dronabinol, THC, nabilone, nalbuphine, and anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics. Use these drugs cautiously with MAOIs; warn patients to not drive or perform other hazardous activities until they know how a particular drug combination affects them. In some cases, the dosages of the CNS depressants may need to be reduced.
Remifentanil: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with remimazolam may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Due to the primary CNS effects of risperidone, caution should be used when risperidone is given in combination with other centrally acting medications including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Rotigotine: (Major) Concomitant use of rotigotine with other CNS depressants, such as benzodiazepines, can potentiate the sedative effects of rotigotine.
Safinamide: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of safinamide with other sedating medications, such as benzodiazepines.
Scopolamine: (Moderate) Scopolamine may cause dizziness and drowsiness. Concurrent use of scopolamine and CNS depressants can adversely increase the risk of CNS depression.
Secobarbital: (Major) The sedative effect of remimazolam can be accentuated by barbiturates. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation.
Sedating H1-blockers: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Selegiline: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of benzodiazepines and selegiline due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Sevoflurane: (Moderate) Concomitant administration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent.
Sincalide: (Moderate) Sincalide-induced gallbladder ejection fraction may be affected by benzodiazepines. False study results are possible in patients with drug-induced hyper- or hypo-responsiveness; thorough patient history is important in the interpretation of procedure results.
Skeletal Muscle Relaxants: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Sodium Oxybate: (Contraindicated) Sodium oxybate should not be used in combination with CNS depressant anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics or other sedative CNS depressant drugs. Specifically, sodium oxybate use is contraindicated in patients being treated with sedative hypnotic drugs. Sodium oxybate (GHB) has the potential to impair cognitive and motor skills. For example, the concomitant use of barbiturates and benzodiazepines increases sleep duration and may contribute to rapid onset, pronounced CNS depression, respiratory depression, or coma when combined with sodium oxybate.
SUFentanil: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with remimazolam may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation.
Suvorexant: (Moderate) CNS depressant drugs may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with suvorexant. A reduction in dose of the CNS depressant may be needed in some cases. These agents include the benzodiazepines.
Tapentadol: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with remimazolam may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation.
Tasimelteon: (Moderate) The sedative effect of remimazolam can be accentuated by tasimelteon. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation.
Teduglutide: (Moderate) Altered mental status has been observed in patients taking teduglutide and benzodiazepines in the adult clinical studies for teduglutide. Careful monitoring and possible dose adjustment of the benzodiazepine agent may be required. Teduglutide has direct effects on the gut that may increase benzodiazepine exposure by improving oral absorption.
Temazepam: (Major) The sedative effect of remimazolam can be accentuated by temazepam. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation.
Tetrabenazine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tetrabenazine and drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as benzodiazepines, can increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, dizziness, and orthostatic hypotension.
Thalidomide: (Major) The use of benzodiazepine anxiolytics, sedatives, or hypnotics with thalidomide may cause an additive sedative effect and should be avoided. Thalidomide frequently causes drowsiness and somnolence. Dose reductions may be required. Patients should be instructed to avoid situations where drowsiness may be a problem and not to take other medications that may cause drowsiness without adequate medical advice. Advise patients as to the possible impairment of mental and/or physical abilities required for the performance of hazardous tasks, such as driving a car or operating other complex or dangerous machinery.
Theophylline, Aminophylline: (Minor) Aminophylline or Theophylline have been reported to counteract the pharmacodynamic effects of diazepam and possibly other benzodiazepines. The clinical significance of this interaction is not certain. A proposed mechanism is competitive binding of these methylxanthines to adenosine receptors in the brain. If such therapy is initiated or discontinued, monitor the clinical response to the benzodiazepine.
Thioridazine: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Thiothixene: (Moderate) Thiothixene can potentiate the CNS-depressant action of other drugs such as benzodiazepines. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects or additive hypotension.
tiaGABine: (Moderate) Because of the possible additive effects of drugs that depress the central nervous system, benzodiazepines should be used with caution in patients receiving tiagabine.
tiZANidine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like the benzodiazepines can cause additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given.
Tolcapone: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Topiramate: (Moderate) Topiramate has the potential to cause CNS depression as well as other cognitive and/or neuropsychiatric adverse reactions. The CNS depressant effects of topiramate can be potentiated pharmacodynamically by concurrent use of CNS depressant agents such as the benzodiazepines.
Tradipitant: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
traMADol: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with remimazolam may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with remimazolam may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation.
Tranylcypromine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of benzodiazepines and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
traZODone: (Major) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of trazodone and benzodiazepines. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Triazolam: (Major) The sedative effect of remimazolam can be accentuated by triazolam. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant use with tricyclic antidepressants, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Additive CNS depression may occur.
Trifluoperazine: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Trihexyphenidyl: (Moderate) CNS depressants, such as anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, can increase the sedative effects of trihexyphenidyl.
Trimethobenzamide: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the benzodiazepines, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the benzodiazepine.
Trimipramine: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant use with tricyclic antidepressants, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Additive CNS depression may occur.
Triprolidine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Valerian, Valeriana officinalis: (Major) Any substances that act on the CNS, including psychoactive drugs and drugs used as anesthetic adjuvants (e.g., barbiturates, benzodiazepines), may theoretically interact with valerian, Valeriana officinalis. The valerian derivative, dihydrovaltrate, binds at barbiturate binding sites; valerenic acid has been shown to inhibit enzyme-induced breakdown of GABA in the brain; the non-volatile monoterpenes (valepotriates) have sedative activity. These interactions are probably pharmacodynamic in nature. There is a possibility of interaction with valerian at normal prescription dosages of anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics (including barbiturates and benzodiazepines). Patients who are taking barbiturates or other sedative/hypnotic drugs should avoid concomitant administration of valerian. Patients taking medications such as tricyclic antidepressants, lithium, MAOIs, skeletal muscle relaxants, SSRIs and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (e.g., duloxetine, venlafaxine) should discuss the use of herbal supplements with their health care professional prior to consuming valerian; combinations should be approached with caution in the absence of clinical data. Patients should not abruptly stop taking their prescribed psychoactive medications.
Vigabatrin: (Moderate) Vigabatrin may cause somnolence and fatigue. Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with vigabatrin, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness. Caution should be used when vigabatrin is given in combination with benzodiazepines.
Vilazodone: (Moderate) Due to the CNS effects of vilazodone, caution should be used when vilazodone is given in combination with other centrally acting medications such as the benzodiazepines.
Zaleplon: (Major) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of zaleplon and benzodiazepines. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression. If used together, a reduction in the dose of one or both drugs may be needed.
Ziprasidone: (Moderate) Ziprasidone has the potential to impair cognitive and motor skills. Additive CNS depressant effects are possible when ziprasidone is used concurrently with any CNS depressant.
Zolpidem: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with zolpidem can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. If used together, a reduction in the dose of one or both drugs may be needed. For Intermezzo brand of sublingual zolpidem tablets, reduce the dose to 1.75 mg/night. Concurrent use of zolpidem with other sedative-hypnotics, including other zolpidem products, at bedtime or the middle of the night is not recommended. In addition, sleep-related behaviors, such as sleep-driving, are more likely to occur during concurrent use of zolpidem and other CNS depressants than with zolpidem alone.
Zuranolone: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    bradycardia, hypertension, hypotension, sinus tachycardia
    General Information
    Remimazolam is associated with bradycardia and hypotension. Continuously monitor vital signs during sedation and through the recovery period. In patients classified as ASA-PS I to III undergoing colonoscopy, hypotension was reported in 39% of patients treated with remimazolam (n = 296) compared to 42% of patients given placebo (n = 60) and midazolam rescue (95% of patients received midazolam) and 62% of patients treated with midazolam (n = 102). Hypotension was defined as a fall in systolic blood pressure (SBP) to 80 mmHg or less or in diastolic blood pressure (DBP) to 40 mmHg or less, or a fall in systolic or diastolic blood pressure of 20% or more below baseline or necessitating medical intervention. Diastolic hypotension occurred in 8% of patients treated with remimazolam compared to 7% of patients given placebo and midazolam rescue and 9% of patients treated with midazolam. Hypertension was reported in 20% of patients treated with remimazolam compared to 28% of patients given placebo and midazolam rescue and 18% of patients treated with midazolam. Hypertension was defined as an increase in SBP to 180 mmHg or more or in DBP to 100 mmHg or more, or an increase of systolic or diastolic blood pressure of 20% or more over baseline or necessitating medical intervention. Systolic hypertension occurred in 5% of patients treated with remimazolam compared to 8% of patients given placebo and midazolam rescue and 6% of patients treated with midazolam. Diastolic hypertension occurred in 10% of patients treated with remimazolam or with placebo plus midazolam rescue and 9% of patients treated with midazolam. Bradycardia and sinus tachycardia were observed in 11% and 8% of patients treated with remimazolam, respectively, 12% of patients given placebo and midazolam rescue, and 16% and 13%, respectively, of patients treated with midazolam. In patients classified as ASA-PS I to III undergoing bronchoscopy, hypotension was reported in 33% of patients treated with remimazolam (n = 303) compared to 47% of patients given placebo (n = 59) and midazolam rescue (97% of patients received midazolam), and 33% of patients treated with midazolam (n = 69). Diastolic hypotension occurred in 14% of patients treated with remimazolam compared to 29% of patients given placebo and midazolam rescue and 23% of patients treated with midazolam. Hypertension was reported in 28% of patients treated with remimazolam compared to 15% of patients given placebo and midazolam rescue and 28% of patients treated with midazolam. Systolic hypertension occurred in 22% of patients treated with remimazolam compared to 22% of patients given placebo and midazolam rescue and 25% of patients treated with midazolam. Diastolic hypertension occurred in 25% of patients treated with remimazolam compared to 25% of patients given placebo and midazolam rescue and 23% of patients treated with midazolam. Bradycardia was observed in 4% of patients treated with remimazolam, 7% of patients given placebo and midazolam rescue, and 6% of patients treated with midazolam. In patients classified as ASA-PS III or IV undergoing colonoscopy, hypotension was reported in 58% of patients treated with remimazolam (n = 31) compared to 69% of patients given placebo (n =16) and midazolam rescue (100% of patients received midazolam) and 57% of patients treated with midazolam (n = 30). Diastolic hypotension occurred in 3% of patients treated with remimazolam compared to 6% of patients given placebo and midazolam rescue and 0% of patients treated with midazolam. Hypertension was reported in 42% of patients treated with remimazolam compared to 38% of patients given placebo and midazolam rescue and 43% of patients treated with midazolam. Systolic hypertension occurred in 6% of patients treated with remimazolam compared to 0% of patients given placebo and midazolam rescue or treated with midazolam. Diastolic hypertension occurred in 10% of patients treated with remimazolam compared to 0% of patients given placebo and midazolam rescue or treated with midazolam. Increases in blood pressure, including systolic and diastolic pressures, were observed in 3% of patients treated with remimazolam and 0% of patients given placebo and midazolam rescue or treated with midazolam. Bradycardia was observed in 3% of patients treated with remimazolam, 6% of patients given placebo and midazolam rescue, and 13% of patients treated with midazolam.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      bradycardia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      sinus tachycardia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hypoxia, respiratory depression
    General Information
    Remimazolam can cause respiratory depression. Continuously monitor patients for early signs of hypoventilation, airway obstruction, and apnea using capnography, pulse oximetry, and clinical assessment. Administer supplemental oxygen to sedated patients through the recovery period. In patients classified as ASA-PS I to III undergoing bronchoscopy, hypoxia was reported in 22% of patients treated with remimazolam (n = 303) compared to 20% of patients given placebo (n = 59) and midazolam rescue (97% of patients received midazolam) and 19% of patients treated with midazolam (n = 69). Increased respiratory rate was reported in 14% of patients treated with remimazolam compared to 10% of patients given placebo and midazolam rescue and 14% of patients treated with midazolam. In patients classified as ASA-PS III or IV undergoing colonoscopy, respiratory acidosis was reported in 19% of patients treated with remimazolam (n = 31) compared to 13% of patients given placebo (n = 16) and midazolam rescue (100% of patients received midazolam) and 27% of patients treated with midazolam (n = 30). Decreased respiratory rate was reported in 3% of patients treated with remimazolam compared to 6% of patients given placebo and midazolam rescue and 7% of patients treated with midazolam.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypoxia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      respiratory depression
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    nausea
    General Information
    In patients classified as ASA-PS I to III undergoing bronchoscopy, nausea was reported in 4% of patients treated with remimazolam (n =303) compared to 3% of patients given placebo (n = 59) and midazolam rescue (97% of patients received midazolam) or midazolam (n = 69).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    fever
    General Information
    In patients classified as ASA-PS I to III undergoing bronchoscopy, fever was reported in 4% of patients treated with remimazolam (n =303) compared to 2% of patients given placebo (n = 59) and midazolam rescue (97% of patients received midazolam) and 1% of patients treated with midazolam (n = 69).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    headache
    General Information
    In patients classified as ASA-PS I to III undergoing bronchoscopy, headache was reported in 3% of patients treated with remimazolam (n =303) compared to 0% of patients given placebo (n = 59) and midazolam rescue (97% of patients received midazolam) and 4% of patients treated with midazolam (n = 69).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    infection
    General Information
    In a study of patients classified as ASA-PS III or IV undergoing colonoscopy, upper respiratory tract infection was reported in 3% of patients treated with remimazolam (n = 31) compared to 0% of patients given placebo (n = 16) and midazolam rescue (100% of patients received midazolam) or midazolam (n = 30).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    neonatal abstinence syndrome, neonatal respiratory depression
    General Information
    Benzodiazepines cross the placenta and may produce sedation, hypotonia, lethargy, and neonatal respiratory depression at birth. Monitor neonates exposed during pregnancy or labor for signs of sedation, respiratory depression, hypotonia, and feeding problems. Neonatal withdrawal or a neonatal abstinence syndrome has also been reported following the ingestion of therapeutic doses of benzodiazepines during the last weeks of pregnancy. Clinical manifestations of neonatal withdrawal may include hyperreflexia, irritability, restlessness, tremors, inconsolable crying, and feeding difficulties. These complications can appear shortly after delivery to 3 weeks after birth and persist from hours to several months, depending on the degree of dependence and pharmacokinetic profile of the benzodiazepine. Observe neonates who are exposed to benzodiazepines in utero during the later stages of pregnancy for symptoms of withdrawal and manage appropriately. Benzodiazepines should be withdrawn cautiously and slowly, using a very gradual dosage-tapering schedule.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      neonatal abstinence syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      neonatal respiratory depression
      Severity
      Severe

Description
  Text
  Remimazolam is an intravenous benzodiazepine indicated for the induction and maintenance of procedural sedation in adults undergoing procedures lasting 30 minutes or less. Compared to other benzodiazepines commonly used in anesthesia, remimazolam has a more rapid onset and shorter duration of action. It undergoes organ-independent metabolism. Remimazolam is associated with hypoxia, bradycardia, and hypotension and requires an experienced clinician and specialized care setting for administration. These cardiorespiratory effects may be more likely to occur in patients with obstructive sleep apnea, the elderly, ASA-PS III or IV patients, and patients receiving concomitant CNS depressant medications.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Benzodiazepines act at the level of the limbic, thalamic, and hypothalamic regions of the CNS, and can produce any level of CNS depression required including sedation, hypnosis, skeletal muscle relaxation, and anticonvulsant activity. The action of these drugs is mediated through the inhibitory neurotransmitter gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA). Remimazolam binds to brain benzodiazepine sites (GABA-A receptors). The formation of a BZD-GABA complex potentiates the effects of GABA and thereby increasing the inhibition of the ascending reticular activating system. Remimazolam does not show clear selectivity between subtypes of the GABA-A receptor.

Pharmacokinetics
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Cmax values of remimazolam were 10% to 20% lower in subjects with moderate or severe hepatic impairment than in healthy subjects in an open-label, single-dose trial that evaluated the pharmacokinetics of remimazolam given as an IV bolus of 0.1 mg/kg over 1 minute. Larger Vz (33% increase in moderately impaired and 41% increase in severely impaired), Vss (50% increase in moderately impaired and 115% increase in severely impaired), and prolonged half-life (60 minutes in moderately impaired and 105 minutes in severely impaired as compared to 42 minutes in healthy subjects) of remimazolam were observed. The average duration of loss of consciousness and recovery time was 3.2 minutes and 12.1 minutes, respectively, for subjects in the moderately hepatically impaired group. These times were 2 minutes and 16.7 minutes, respectively, for the subjects in the severely hepatically impaired group. Healthy control subjects had a loss of consciousness of 1.6 minutes and a recovery time of 8 minutes.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    The pharmacokinetics of remimazolam were not altered in patients with mild to end-stage renal disease not requiring dialysis. In a renal impairment study, AUC and Cmax were not statistically different in subjects with varying degrees of renal function (from normal to severely impaired). Increased exposure to inactive metabolite CNS7054 was observed with increasing degree of renal impairment.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Age had no clinically relevant effect on remimazolam pharmacokinetics.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    Gender had no clinically relevant effect on remimazolam pharmacokinetics.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    Race had no clinically relevant effect on remimazolam pharmacokinetics.
    Name
    Obesity
    Description
    Weight had no clinically relevant effect on remimazolam pharmacokinetics.
  Text
  Remimazolam is administered intravenously. The Vd of remimazolam is 0.76 to 0.98 L/kg. Plasma protein binding is more than 91%, primarily to human serum albumin. The mean distribution half-life is 0.5 and 2 minutes. Remimazolam is converted by tissue carboxylesterases (primarily type 1A) to a primary inactive metabolite CNS7054, which subsequently undergoes hydroxylation and glucuronidation. Clearance (54 to 75 L/hour) is independent of body weight. Approximately 0.003% of remimazolam is excreted unchanged in urine, and 50% to 60% is excreted in urine as the metabolite CNS7054. Remimazolam has a terminal elimination half-life from plasma of 37 to 53 minutes.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 (CYP450) isoenzymes and drug transporters: none

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Intravenous Administration
      Description
      Reconstitution
Use strict aseptic technique during handling of remimazolam. Remimazolam does not contain preservative.
Once removed from packaging, protect vials from light.
Add 8.2 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection to the vial, directing the stream of the solution towards the wall of the vial, to yield a final concentration of 2.5 mg/mL.
Gently swirl the vial until the contents are fully dissolved. Do not shake.
Do not mix remimazolam with other drugs or fluids before administration.
Storage: Reconstituted solution may be stored in the vial for up to 8 hours under controlled room temperature at 20 to 25 degrees C (68 to 77 degrees F). After 8 hours, discard any unused portion.
 
IV Push
Administer over 1 minute for procedural sedation induction and over 15 seconds for procedural sedation maintenance.
    Name
    Injectable Administration
    Description
    Visually inspect parenteral products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit. Upon reconstitution, the remimazolam solution should be a clear, colorless to pale yellow color.
Remimazolam use requires an experienced clinician trained in the administration of procedural sedation, and not involved in the conduct of the diagnostic or therapeutic procedure. Administering personnel must be trained in the detection and management of airway obstruction, hypoventilation, and apnea, including the maintenance of a patent airway, supportive ventilation, and cardiovascular resuscitation.
A specialized care setting where resuscitative drugs, including a benzodiazepine reversal agent (i.e., flumazenil), and age- and size-appropriate bag/valve/mask assisted ventilation is immediately available is also required during remimazolam administration.
Continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation. Continuously monitor vital signs during sedation and through the recovery period.
Administer supplemental oxygen to sedated patients through the recovery period.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    5 mg/dose IV for sedation induction; 2.5 mg/dose IV for sedation maintenance.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    5 mg/dose IV for sedation induction; 2.5 mg/dose IV for sedation maintenance.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  In patients with severe hepatic disease, carefully titrate the remimazolam dose to effect; depending on the overall status of the patient, lower frequency of supplemental doses may be needed to achieve the level of sedation required for the procedure.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
