=== Calcium Carbonate/Magnesium Hydroxide/Simethicone (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5391)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Calcium carbonate; magnesium hydroxide; simethicone is a combination used to treat heartburn and gas associated with dyspepsia (acid indigestion).

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: Maximum dosage information is dependent on product and formulation. Usual 60 mL/day PO for marketed oral suspensions.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): eructation, gastric hypersecretion, hypermagnesemia, hypercalcemia, metabolic alkalosis, milk-alkali syndrome, nephrolithiasis

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Calcium carbonate antacids should not be used in patients with hypercalcemia.

Brand Names
  - Mylanta

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage (oral suspension; each 10 mL containing Calcium carbonate 800 mg or 1,200 mg with Magnesium hydroxide 270 mg and Simethicone 80 mg)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults, Adolescents, and Children 12 years and older
        Dosage Description
        10 to 20 mL PO as needed between or after meals and at bedtime or as directed by care team. Max: 60 mL per 24 hours.
    Heading
    For symptomatic relief of pyrosis (heartburn), dyspepsia, or upset stomach accompanied by flatulence or functional gastric bloating

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    hypercalcemia, hypercalciuria, hyperparathyroidism, hypervitaminosis D, nephrolithiasis, sarcoidosis
    General Information
    Calcium carbonate antacids should not be used in patients with hypercalcemia. Use cautiously, if at all, in patients with hypervitaminosis D or hyperparathyroidism as these conditions increase the risk of developing or exacerbating hypercalcemia. Also use in caution in patients with sarcoidosis due to the increased risk of hypercalcemia. Use calcium carbonate with caution in patients with preexisting hypercalciuria or nephrolithiasis, especially if renal calculi are present.
    Headline
    magnesium restriction, renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    Calcium carbonate; magnesium hydroxide; simethicone antacid products should be used cautiously in patients with renal impairment or renal failure or those following a diet with magnesium restriction because of the increased risk of developing hypermagnesemia and magnesium toxicity. Encourage these patients to check with their care teams prior to non-prescription use of these antacid products. Use calcium with caution in patients with renal impairment or renal failure due to the increased risk of hypercalcemia. Calcium carbonate has historically been commonly employed as a dietary phosphate binder in people with renal failure, but it should be avoided in those who have elevated serum calcium levels, have low serum parathyroid concentrations, or have known tissue or vascular calcification.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Calcium carbonate; magnesium hydroxide; simethicone is compatible with breast-feeding. When chronic use and high doses are avoided, it is generally considered to be safe. Human milk naturally contains calcium and other minerals. The calcium content of human milk is homeostatically regulated, and maternal calcium intake does not appear to alter the milk's calcium content. With maternal magnesium supplementation, no significant changes in milk magnesium concentrations appear to occur. No problems with calcium carbonate or magnesium hydroxide use have been reported in the breastfed child; these antacids do not concentrate in breast milk. Due to the fact that simethicone is not absorbed systemically, it seems unlikely that simethicone would be excreted in human milk; problems in breastfed children have not been documented.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    When used occasionally and at recommended doses, calcium carbonate; magnesium hydroxide; simethicone products appear to be safe and effective to use during pregnancy, provided the pregnant individual does not have concerns with renal dysfunction. Adverse effects have not been reported with the intake of calcium carbonate or magnesium within the recommended dietary daily intakes for a pregnant person. Epidemiologic evidence during human pregnancy shows no difference in outcomes between simethicone exposed and nonexposed pregnancies, and there is a low risk for use as an antiflatulent for occasional gas because it is not systemically absorbed. Guidelines recommend a trial of lifestyle modifications as first-line therapy for heartburn and gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), followed by antacids. For ongoing symptoms, histamine type 2-receptor antagonists (H2RAs) can be used to control heartburn symptoms in pregnancy. Proton pump inhibitors should be reserved for patients who fail H2RA therapy.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    When used occasionally and at recommended doses, calcium carbonate; magnesium hydroxide; simethicone products appear to be safe and effective to use during pregnancy, provided the pregnant individual does not have concerns with renal dysfunction. Adverse effects have not been reported with the intake of calcium carbonate or magnesium within the recommended dietary daily intakes for a pregnant person. Epidemiologic evidence during human pregnancy shows no difference in outcomes between simethicone exposed and nonexposed pregnancies, and there is a low risk for use as an antiflatulent for occasional gas because it is not systemically absorbed. Guidelines recommend a trial of lifestyle modifications as first-line therapy for heartburn and gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), followed by antacids. For ongoing symptoms, histamine type 2-receptor antagonists (H2RAs) can be used to control heartburn symptoms in pregnancy. Proton pump inhibitors should be reserved for patients who fail H2RA therapy.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Calcium carbonate; magnesium hydroxide; simethicone is compatible with breast-feeding. When chronic use and high doses are avoided, it is generally considered to be safe. Human milk naturally contains calcium and other minerals. The calcium content of human milk is homeostatically regulated, and maternal calcium intake does not appear to alter the milk's calcium content. With maternal magnesium supplementation, no significant changes in milk magnesium concentrations appear to occur. No problems with calcium carbonate or magnesium hydroxide use have been reported in the breastfed child; these antacids do not concentrate in breast milk. Due to the fact that simethicone is not absorbed systemically, it seems unlikely that simethicone would be excreted in human milk; problems in breastfed children have not been documented.

Interactions
Abacavir; Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Administer dolutegravir 2 hours before or 6 hours after taking supplements containing calcium if given under fasting conditions. When taken with food, dolutegravir and supplements containing calcium can be taken at the same time. Simultaneous administration under fasted conditions may result in reduced bioavailability of dolutegravir.
Acalabrutinib: (Moderate) Separate the administration of acalabrutinib capsules and calcium carbonate by at least 2 hours if these agents are used together; decreased acalabrutinib exposure occurred when acalabrutinib capsules and calcium carbonate were coadministered in a drug interaction study. Acalabrutinib capsule solubility decreases with increasing pH values. In healthy subjects, the AUC of acalabrutinib was decreased by 53% when acalabrutinib capsules were coadministered with calcium carbonate 1 gram.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) It appears that antacids increase pseudoephedrine plasma concentrations. This interaction can be avoided by separating the administration of pseudoephedrine and antacids by 1 to 2 hours. If antacids are used on a regular basis, an alternative to pseudoephedrine may be considered.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) It appears that antacids increase pseudoephedrine plasma concentrations. This interaction can be avoided by separating the administration of pseudoephedrine and antacids by 1 to 2 hours. If antacids are used on a regular basis, an alternative to pseudoephedrine may be considered.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) It appears that antacids increase pseudoephedrine plasma concentrations. This interaction can be avoided by separating the administration of pseudoephedrine and antacids by 1 to 2 hours. If antacids are used on a regular basis, an alternative to pseudoephedrine may be considered.
Acetaminophen; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) It appears that antacids increase pseudoephedrine plasma concentrations. This interaction can be avoided by separating the administration of pseudoephedrine and antacids by 1 to 2 hours. If antacids are used on a regular basis, an alternative to pseudoephedrine may be considered.
Albuterol; Budesonide: (Moderate) Enteric-coated budesonide granules dissolve at a pH > 5.5. Likewise, the dissolution of the coating of extended-release budesonide tablets (Uceris) is pH dependent. Concomitant use of oral budesonide and antacids, milk, or other drugs that increase gastric pH levels can cause the coating of the granules to dissolve prematurely, possibly affecting release properties and absorption of the drug in the duodenum. In general, it may be prudent to avoid drugs such as antacids in combination with enteric-coated budesonide. In addition, calcium absorption is reduced when calcium carbonate is taken concomitantly with systemic corticosteroids. Systemic corticosteroids induce a negative calcium balance by inhibiting intestinal calcium absorption as well as by increasing renal calcium losses. The mechanism by which these drugs inhibit calcium absorption in the intestine is likely to involve a direct inhibition of absorptive cell function.
Alendronate: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and calcium-containing supplements by at least 30 minutes. Calcium will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Alendronate; Cholecalciferol: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and calcium-containing supplements by at least 30 minutes. Calcium will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
amLODIPine: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium. (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Amphetamine: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in amphetamine-related adverse effects during concomitant antacid use. Increasing gastric or urine pH may increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for side effects in some patients. As antacids have rarely been observed to increase gastric or urinary pH above 6.5, antacid-related pH changes may be insufficient to warrant clinical concern in most patients.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in amphetamine-related adverse effects during concomitant antacid use. Increasing gastric or urine pH may increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for side effects in some patients. As antacids have rarely been observed to increase gastric or urinary pH above 6.5, antacid-related pH changes may be insufficient to warrant clinical concern in most patients.
Amphetamines: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in amphetamine-related adverse effects during concomitant antacid use. Increasing gastric or urine pH may increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for side effects in some patients. As antacids have rarely been observed to increase gastric or urinary pH above 6.5, antacid-related pH changes may be insufficient to warrant clinical concern in most patients.
Anticholinergics: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of calcium carbonate and anticholinergics. Antacids may interfere with the absorption of anticholinergics.
Atazanavir: (Major) Atazanavir solubility decreases as gastric pH increases. Although drug interactions between atazanavir and antacids have not been specifically studied, based on data with other protease inhibitors, it is recommended that antacids not be given at the same time as atazanavir because of potential interference with absorption of atazanavir. Separate the administration of atazanavir and antacids to avoid the potential for interaction; give atazanavir 2 hours before or 1 hour after the antacid.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Atazanavir solubility decreases as gastric pH increases. Although drug interactions between atazanavir and antacids have not been specifically studied, based on data with other protease inhibitors, it is recommended that antacids not be given at the same time as atazanavir because of potential interference with absorption of atazanavir. Separate the administration of atazanavir and antacids to avoid the potential for interaction; give atazanavir 2 hours before or 1 hour after the antacid.
Atenolol: (Minor) Calcium antacids (e.g., calcium carbonate) and supplements (e.g., other oral calcium salts) have been reported to reduce the mean peak concentrations by 51% and the AUC of atenolol by 32%. In another study, antacids reduced the AUC of atenolol by 33%. Separate doses of atenolol and calcium-containing antacids or supplements by at least 2 hours to minimize this potential interaction,. However, most clinicians consider the interaction of atenolol with antacids to be of minor clinical significance, since clinical efficacy (heart rate and blood pressure parameters) appear to be unchanged under usual intermittent clinical use.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium. (Minor) Calcium antacids (e.g., calcium carbonate) and supplements (e.g., other oral calcium salts) have been reported to reduce the mean peak concentrations by 51% and the AUC of atenolol by 32%. In another study, antacids reduced the AUC of atenolol by 33%. Separate doses of atenolol and calcium-containing antacids or supplements by at least 2 hours to minimize this potential interaction,. However, most clinicians consider the interaction of atenolol with antacids to be of minor clinical significance, since clinical efficacy (heart rate and blood pressure parameters) appear to be unchanged under usual intermittent clinical use.
Atracurium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium may result in resistance to neuromuscular blockade. Calcium antagonizes the potentiating effect of magnesium on neuromuscular blockade. Also, calcium triggers acetylcholine release, and therefore, may both reduce the sensitivity to neuromuscular blockers and decrease the duration of neuromuscular blockade.
Atropine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of calcium carbonate and anticholinergics. Antacids may interfere with the absorption of anticholinergics.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of calcium carbonate and anticholinergics. Antacids may interfere with the absorption of anticholinergics.
Avutometinib; Defactinib: (Moderate) Separate the administration times for defactinib and calcium carbonate by at least 2 hours if concomitant use is necessary. Medications that alter gastric pH interfere with defactinib oral absorption which may decrease defactinib exposure and efficacy.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Baloxavir Marboxil: (Major) Do not administer baloxavir with products that contain calcium. Polyvalent cations, such as calcium, can chelate with baloxavir, reducing its absorption.
Beclomethasone: (Moderate) Calcium absorption is reduced when calcium carbonate is taken concomitantly with systemic corticosteroids.
Belladonna; Opium: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of calcium carbonate and anticholinergics. Antacids may interfere with the absorption of anticholinergics.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of calcium carbonate and anticholinergics. Antacids may interfere with the absorption of anticholinergics. (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of calcium carbonate and methenamine. Calcium carbonate may cause the urine to become alkaline. This may reduce the effectiveness of methenamine by inhibiting its conversion to formaldehyde.
Benzphetamine: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in amphetamine-related adverse effects during concomitant antacid use. Increasing gastric or urine pH may increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for side effects in some patients. As antacids have rarely been observed to increase gastric or urinary pH above 6.5, antacid-related pH changes may be insufficient to warrant clinical concern in most patients.
Benztropine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of calcium carbonate and anticholinergics. Antacids may interfere with the absorption of anticholinergics.
Betamethasone: (Moderate) Calcium absorption is reduced when calcium carbonate is taken concomitantly with systemic corticosteroids. Systemic corticosteroids induce a negative calcium balance by inhibiting intestinal calcium absorption as well as by increasing renal calcium losses. The mechanism by which these drugs inhibit calcium absorption in the intestine is likely to involve a direct inhibition of absorptive cell function.
Bictegravir; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Administer bictegravir with food at the same time as oral calcium supplements. If bictegravir is taken on an empty stomach, it should be given at least 2 hours before or 6 hours after calcium supplements. Routine administration of bictegravir under fasting conditions simultaneously with, or 2 hours after, calcium supplements is not recommended. Calcium is a polyvalent cation that can bind bictegravir in the GI tract. Taking these drugs simultaneously without food results in reduced bioavailability of bictegravir. In drug interaction studies, simultaneous administration of bictegravir with another calcium supplement under fasted conditions decreased the mean AUC of bictegravir by approximately 33%.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Administer bictegravir with food at the same time as oral calcium supplements. If bictegravir is taken on an empty stomach, it should be given at least 2 hours before or 6 hours after calcium supplements. Routine administration of bictegravir under fasting conditions simultaneously with, or 2 hours after, calcium supplements is not recommended. Calcium is a polyvalent cation that can bind bictegravir in the GI tract. Taking these drugs simultaneously without food results in reduced bioavailability of bictegravir. In drug interaction studies, simultaneous administration of bictegravir with another calcium supplement under fasted conditions decreased the mean AUC of bictegravir by approximately 33%.
Bisacodyl: (Moderate) By increasing intragastric pH, calcium carbonate can affect the dissolution of oral bisacodyl tablets; administration should be separated by 1 hour.
Bismuth Subcitrate Potassium; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Divalent or trivalent cations readily chelate with tetracycline antibiotics, forming insoluble compounds. The oral absorption of these antibiotics will be significantly reduced by other orally administered compounds that contain calcium salts, particularly if the time of administration is within 60 minutes of each other. Calcium salts and tetracyclines should not be administered within 1 to 2 hours of each other, although doxycycline chelates less with calcium than other tetracyclines.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Divalent or trivalent cations readily chelate with tetracycline antibiotics, forming insoluble compounds. The oral absorption of these antibiotics will be significantly reduced by other orally administered compounds that contain calcium salts, particularly if the time of administration is within 60 minutes of each other. Calcium salts and tetracyclines should not be administered within 1 to 2 hours of each other, although doxycycline chelates less with calcium than other tetracyclines.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Bosutinib: (Major) Bosutinib displays pH-dependent aqueous solubility; therefore, concomitant use of bosutinib and antacids may result in decreased plasma exposure of bosutinib. Separate the administration of bosutinib and antacids by more than 2 hours.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) It appears that antacids increase pseudoephedrine plasma concentrations. This interaction can be avoided by separating the administration of pseudoephedrine and antacids by 1 to 2 hours. If antacids are used on a regular basis, an alternative to pseudoephedrine may be considered.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Minor) It appears that antacids increase pseudoephedrine plasma concentrations. This interaction can be avoided by separating the administration of pseudoephedrine and antacids by 1 to 2 hours. If antacids are used on a regular basis, an alternative to pseudoephedrine may be considered.
Budesonide: (Moderate) Enteric-coated budesonide granules dissolve at a pH > 5.5. Likewise, the dissolution of the coating of extended-release budesonide tablets (Uceris) is pH dependent. Concomitant use of oral budesonide and antacids, milk, or other drugs that increase gastric pH levels can cause the coating of the granules to dissolve prematurely, possibly affecting release properties and absorption of the drug in the duodenum. In general, it may be prudent to avoid drugs such as antacids in combination with enteric-coated budesonide. In addition, calcium absorption is reduced when calcium carbonate is taken concomitantly with systemic corticosteroids. Systemic corticosteroids induce a negative calcium balance by inhibiting intestinal calcium absorption as well as by increasing renal calcium losses. The mechanism by which these drugs inhibit calcium absorption in the intestine is likely to involve a direct inhibition of absorptive cell function.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Moderate) Enteric-coated budesonide granules dissolve at a pH > 5.5. Likewise, the dissolution of the coating of extended-release budesonide tablets (Uceris) is pH dependent. Concomitant use of oral budesonide and antacids, milk, or other drugs that increase gastric pH levels can cause the coating of the granules to dissolve prematurely, possibly affecting release properties and absorption of the drug in the duodenum. In general, it may be prudent to avoid drugs such as antacids in combination with enteric-coated budesonide. In addition, calcium absorption is reduced when calcium carbonate is taken concomitantly with systemic corticosteroids. Systemic corticosteroids induce a negative calcium balance by inhibiting intestinal calcium absorption as well as by increasing renal calcium losses. The mechanism by which these drugs inhibit calcium absorption in the intestine is likely to involve a direct inhibition of absorptive cell function.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of calcium carbonate and anticholinergics. Antacids may interfere with the absorption of anticholinergics. (Moderate) Enteric-coated budesonide granules dissolve at a pH > 5.5. Likewise, the dissolution of the coating of extended-release budesonide tablets (Uceris) is pH dependent. Concomitant use of oral budesonide and antacids, milk, or other drugs that increase gastric pH levels can cause the coating of the granules to dissolve prematurely, possibly affecting release properties and absorption of the drug in the duodenum. In general, it may be prudent to avoid drugs such as antacids in combination with enteric-coated budesonide. In addition, calcium absorption is reduced when calcium carbonate is taken concomitantly with systemic corticosteroids. Systemic corticosteroids induce a negative calcium balance by inhibiting intestinal calcium absorption as well as by increasing renal calcium losses. The mechanism by which these drugs inhibit calcium absorption in the intestine is likely to involve a direct inhibition of absorptive cell function.
Cabotegravir: (Moderate) Administer oral calcium at least two hours before or four hours after taking oral cabotegravir. Calcium is a polyvalent cation that can bind cabotegravir in the GI tract. Taking these drugs simultaneously may result in reduced oral bioavailability of cabotegravir.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Administer oral calcium at least two hours before or four hours after taking oral cabotegravir. Calcium is a polyvalent cation that can bind cabotegravir in the GI tract. Taking these drugs simultaneously may result in reduced oral bioavailability of cabotegravir. (Moderate) Concurrent administration of rilpivirine and antacids may significantly decrease rilpivirine plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in treatment failure. To decrease the risk of virologic failure, avoid use of antacids for at least 2 hours before and at least 4 hours after administering rilpivirine.
Calcifediol: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentrations during concomitant use of high doses of calcium and vitamin D analogs; a dosage adjustment of the vitamin D analog may be needed. Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by concomitant administration.
Calcipotriene: (Minor) There is evidence that calcipotriene can be absorbed in amounts that are sufficient to produce systemic effects, including elevated serum calcium; hypercalcemia has been observed in normal prescription use. Use calcipotriene cautiously with other agents that can produce hypercalcemia (e.g., calcium salts or supplements including calcium carbonate).
Calcipotriene; Betamethasone: (Minor) There is evidence that calcipotriene can be absorbed in amounts that are sufficient to produce systemic effects, including elevated serum calcium; hypercalcemia has been observed in normal prescription use. Use calcipotriene cautiously with other agents that can produce hypercalcemia (e.g., calcium salts or supplements including calcium carbonate).
Calcitonin: (Moderate) Calcitonin is given to hypercalcemic patients to reduce serum calcium concentrations. For the treatment of hypercalcemia, calcium supplements should be avoided. Calcium salts, including calcium carbonate, can elevate serum calcium concentrations and antagonize the effects of the calcitonin for this condition. For the treatment of osteoporosis adequate intake of calcium salts are necessary in conjunction with calcitonin. An increase in serum calcium concentrations helps to reduce bone resorption and loss of bone mass, and offsets the effect of calcitonin in lowering serum calcium levels.
Calcitriol: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentrations during concomitant use of high doses of calcium and vitamin D analogs; a dosage adjustment of the vitamin D analog may be needed. Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by concomitant administration.
Calcium Phosphate, Supersaturated: (Moderate) The concomitant use of oral sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous preparations in conjunction with antacids containing calcium (e.g., calcium carbonate, calcium salts) may bind the phosphate in the stomach and reduce its absorption. If the patient requires multiple mineral supplements or concurrent use of antacids, it is prudent to separate the administration of sodium phosphate salts from calcium containing products by at least one hour.
Calcium-channel blockers: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Captopril: (Major) Antacids can decrease the GI absorption of captopril if administered simultaneously.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Antacids can decrease the GI absorption of captopril if administered simultaneously. (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Cardiac glycosides: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of digoxin toxicity during concomitant calcium use. Hypercalcemia may predispose persons to digoxin toxicity. If IV calcium is administered rapidly in a person receiving digoxin, serious arrhythmias may occur. Monitor ECG and calcium concentrations closely during IV calcium and digoxin administration.
Cefpodoxime: (Moderate) Because cefpodoxime proxetil requires a low gastric pH for dissolution, drugs which increase gastric pH, such as antacids, can decrease the bioavailability of cefpodoxime.
Cefuroxime: (Moderate) Antacids can interfere with the oral absorption of cefuroxime axetil and may result in reduced antibiotic efficacy. If an antacid must be used while a patient is taking cefuroxime, administer the oral dosage of cefuroxime at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after the antacid.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) It appears that antacids increase pseudoephedrine plasma concentrations. This interaction can be avoided by separating the administration of pseudoephedrine and antacids by 1 to 2 hours. If antacids are used on a regular basis, an alternative to pseudoephedrine may be considered.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) It appears that antacids increase pseudoephedrine plasma concentrations. This interaction can be avoided by separating the administration of pseudoephedrine and antacids by 1 to 2 hours. If antacids are used on a regular basis, an alternative to pseudoephedrine may be considered.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of calcium carbonate and anticholinergics. Antacids may interfere with the absorption of anticholinergics.
Chloroquine: (Major) Chloroquine absorption may be reduced by antacids. Administer chloroquine and antacids at least 4 hours apart.
Chlorothiazide: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) It appears that antacids increase pseudoephedrine plasma concentrations. This interaction can be avoided by separating the administration of pseudoephedrine and antacids by 1 to 2 hours. If antacids are used on a regular basis, an alternative to pseudoephedrine may be considered.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) It appears that antacids increase pseudoephedrine plasma concentrations. This interaction can be avoided by separating the administration of pseudoephedrine and antacids by 1 to 2 hours. If antacids are used on a regular basis, an alternative to pseudoephedrine may be considered.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) It appears that antacids increase pseudoephedrine plasma concentrations. This interaction can be avoided by separating the administration of pseudoephedrine and antacids by 1 to 2 hours. If antacids are used on a regular basis, an alternative to pseudoephedrine may be considered.
Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Ciprofloxacin: (Moderate) Administer oral ciprofloxacin at least 2 hours before or 6 hours after oral products that contain calcium. Ciprofloxacin absorption may be reduced as quinolone antibiotics can chelate with divalent or trivalent cations. Examples of compounds that may interfere with quinolone bioavailability include antacids and multivitamins that contain calcium.
Cisatracurium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium may result in resistance to neuromuscular blockade. Calcium antagonizes the potentiating effect of magnesium on neuromuscular blockade. Also, calcium triggers acetylcholine release, and therefore, may both reduce the sensitivity to neuromuscular blockers and decrease the duration of neuromuscular blockade.
Clevidipine: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Cod Liver Oil: (Minor) Doses in excess of 1,500 to 2,000 mcg per day of Vitamin A may lead to bone loss and will counteract the effects of supplementation with calcium salts.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) It appears that antacids increase pseudoephedrine plasma concentrations. This interaction can be avoided by separating the administration of pseudoephedrine and antacids by 1 to 2 hours. If antacids are used on a regular basis, an alternative to pseudoephedrine may be considered.
Conjugated Estrogens: (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Conjugated Estrogens; Bazedoxifene: (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Conjugated Estrogens; medroxyPROGESTERone: (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Corticotropin, ACTH: (Moderate) Calcium absorption is reduced when calcium carbonate is taken concomitantly with systemic corticosteroids. Systemic corticosteroids induce a negative calcium balance by inhibiting intestinal calcium absorption as well as by increasing renal calcium losses. The mechanism by which these drugs inhibit calcium absorption in the intestine is likely to involve a direct inhibition of absorptive cell function. Patients taking systemic corticosteroids should ensure proper intake of calcium as directed by their health care provider.
Cortisone: (Moderate) Calcium absorption is reduced when calcium carbonate is taken concomitantly with systemic corticosteroids. Systemic corticosteroids induce a negative calcium balance by inhibiting intestinal calcium absorption as well as by increasing renal calcium losses. The mechanism by which these drugs inhibit calcium absorption in the intestine is likely to involve a direct inhibition of absorptive cell function.
Cysteamine: (Major) In general, cysteamine may be administered with electrolyte and mineral replacements necessary for managing Fanconi syndrome, as well as with vitamin D and thyroid hormone. However, delayed-release cysteamine (Procysbi) should be administered at least 1 hour before or 1 after medications that increase gastric pH, including those containing bicarbonate or carbonate (i.e.calcium carbonate). Drugs that increase the gastric pH, such as bicarbonate and carbonate, may cause the premature release of cysteamine from delayed-release capsules, leading to an increase in WBC cystine concentration.
Dasatinib: (Moderate) Separate the administration of dasatinib and antacids, such as oral calcium carbonate, by at least 2 hours if concomitant use is required. Antacids alter gastric pH; simultaneous administration reduces dasatinib absorption and may reduce dasatinib efficacy. The effect of antacids on dasatinib absorption varies by dasatinib dosage form: simultaneous administration reduced the overall exposure of film-coated oral tablets, such as Sprycel, by 58%, and reduced the overall exposure of Phyrago by 32%.
Delafloxacin: (Major) Administer oral delafloxacin at least 2 hours before or 6 hours after oral products that contain calcium. Delafloxacin absorption may be reduced as quinolone antibiotics can chelate with divalent or trivalent cations. Examples of compounds that may interfere with fluoroquinolone bioavailability include antacids and multivitamins that contain calcium.
Demeclocycline: (Moderate) Divalent or trivalent cations readily chelate with tetracycline antibiotics, forming insoluble compounds. The oral absorption of these antibiotics will be significantly reduced by other orally administered compounds that contain calcium salts, particularly if the time of administration is within 60 minutes of each other. Calcium salts and tetracyclines should not be administered within 1 to 2 hours of each other, although doxycycline chelates less with calcium than other tetracyclines.
Desloratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) It appears that antacids increase pseudoephedrine plasma concentrations. This interaction can be avoided by separating the administration of pseudoephedrine and antacids by 1 to 2 hours. If antacids are used on a regular basis, an alternative to pseudoephedrine may be considered.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) Antacids (e.g., calcium carbonate, aluminum hydroxide, or magnesium hydroxide) may decrease the absorption of oral iron preparations (e.g., iron salts or polysaccharide-iron complex). At higher pH values, iron is more readily ionized to its ferric state and is more poorly absorbed. Doses of antacids and iron should be taken as far apart as possible to minimize the potential for interaction. (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) It appears that antacids increase pseudoephedrine plasma concentrations. This interaction can be avoided by separating the administration of pseudoephedrine and antacids by 1 to 2 hours. If antacids are used on a regular basis, an alternative to pseudoephedrine may be considered.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) It appears that antacids increase pseudoephedrine plasma concentrations. This interaction can be avoided by separating the administration of pseudoephedrine and antacids by 1 to 2 hours. If antacids are used on a regular basis, an alternative to pseudoephedrine may be considered.
Dextroamphetamine: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in amphetamine-related adverse effects during concomitant antacid use. Increasing gastric or urine pH may increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for side effects in some patients. As antacids have rarely been observed to increase gastric or urinary pH above 6.5, antacid-related pH changes may be insufficient to warrant clinical concern in most patients.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) It appears that antacids increase pseudoephedrine plasma concentrations. This interaction can be avoided by separating the administration of pseudoephedrine and antacids by 1 to 2 hours. If antacids are used on a regular basis, an alternative to pseudoephedrine may be considered.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Major) By increasing urinary pH, calcium carbonate can decrease the urinary excretion of quinidine.
diazePAM: (Moderate) The coadministration of diazepam with antacids results in delayed diazepam absorption due to the fact that antacids delay gastric emptying. It may be prudent to separate dosing by 2 hours to limit any potential interaction.
Dicyclomine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of calcium carbonate and anticholinergics. Antacids may interfere with the absorption of anticholinergics.
Dienogest; Estradiol valerate: (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Diflunisal: (Moderate) Concurrent use of diflunisal with antacids, such as calcium carbonate, may reduce plasma diflunisal concentrations. The effect may be clinically significant if antacids are used on a continuous schedule.
Digoxin: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of digoxin toxicity during concomitant calcium use. Hypercalcemia may predispose persons to digoxin toxicity. If IV calcium is administered rapidly in a person receiving digoxin, serious arrhythmias may occur. Monitor ECG and calcium concentrations closely during IV calcium and digoxin administration.
dilTIAZem: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of calcium carbonate and anticholinergics. Antacids may interfere with the absorption of anticholinergics.
Dolutegravir: (Moderate) Administer dolutegravir 2 hours before or 6 hours after taking supplements containing calcium if given under fasting conditions. When taken with food, dolutegravir and supplements containing calcium can be taken at the same time. Simultaneous administration under fasted conditions may result in reduced bioavailability of dolutegravir.
Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Administer dolutegravir 2 hours before or 6 hours after taking supplements containing calcium if given under fasting conditions. When taken with food, dolutegravir and supplements containing calcium can be taken at the same time. Simultaneous administration under fasted conditions may result in reduced bioavailability of dolutegravir.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Administer dolutegravir 2 hours before or 6 hours after taking supplements containing calcium if given under fasting conditions. When taken with food, dolutegravir and supplements containing calcium can be taken at the same time. Simultaneous administration under fasted conditions may result in reduced bioavailability of dolutegravir. (Moderate) Concurrent administration of rilpivirine and antacids may significantly decrease rilpivirine plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in treatment failure. To decrease the risk of virologic failure, avoid use of antacids for at least 2 hours before and at least 4 hours after administering rilpivirine.
Doxercalciferol: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentrations during concomitant use of high doses of calcium and vitamin D analogs; a dosage adjustment of the vitamin D analog may be needed. Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by concomitant administration.
Doxycycline: (Moderate) Divalent or trivalent cations readily chelate with tetracycline antibiotics, forming insoluble compounds. The oral absorption of these antibiotics will be significantly reduced by other orally administered compounds that contain calcium salts, particularly if the time of administration is within 60 minutes of each other. Calcium salts and tetracyclines should not be administered within 1 to 2 hours of each other, although doxycycline chelates less with calcium than other tetracyclines.
Drospirenone; Estetrol: (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Drospirenone; Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Edetate Calcium Disodium, Calcium EDTA: (Major) Because edetate disodium chelates and lowers serum calcium, oral or parenteral calcium salts should not be administered concomitantly.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Eltrombopag: (Major) Eltrombopag chelates polyvalent cations (e.g., calcium, aluminum, and magnesium) in food, mineral supplements, and antacids. In a clinical study, systemic exposure to eltrombopag was decreased by 70% when it was administered with a polyvalent cation-containing antacid. Administer eltrombopag at least 2 hours before or 4 hours after any oral products containing polyvalent cations, such as aluminum salts, (like aluminum hydroxide), calcium salts, (including calcium carbonate), and magnesium salts.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Separate administration of elvitegravir and calcium by at least 2 hours. Due to the formation of ionic complexes in the gastrointestinal tract, simultaneous administration results in lower elvitegravir plasma concentrations.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Separate administration of elvitegravir and calcium by at least 2 hours. Due to the formation of ionic complexes in the gastrointestinal tract, simultaneous administration results in lower elvitegravir plasma concentrations.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of rilpivirine and antacids may significantly decrease rilpivirine plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in treatment failure. To decrease the risk of virologic failure, avoid use of antacids for at least 2 hours before and at least 4 hours after administering rilpivirine.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of rilpivirine and antacids may significantly decrease rilpivirine plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in treatment failure. To decrease the risk of virologic failure, avoid use of antacids for at least 2 hours before and at least 4 hours after administering rilpivirine.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Erdafitinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of calcium carbonate with erdafitinib before the initial dose increase period (days 14 to 21) which is based on serum phosphate levels. Calcium carbonate decreases serum phosphate levels. The initial dose increase of erdafitinib on days 14 to 21 is based on serum phosphate levels; changes in serum phosphate levels by calcium carbonate may interfere with the determination of this initial dose increase.
Erlotinib: (Major) Separate administration by several hours if concomitant use of erlotinib with calcium carbonate is necessary. Erlotinib displays pH-dependent solubility with decreased solubility at a higher pH; the increased gastric pH resulting from calcium carbonate therapy may reduce the bioavailability of erlotinib. Increasing the dose of erlotinib without modifying the administration schedule is unlikely to compensate for loss of exposure. The effects of antacids on erlotinib pharmacokinetics has not been evaluated.
Esterified Estrogens: (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Esterified Estrogens; methylTESTOSTERone: (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Estradiol; Levonorgestrel: (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Estradiol; Norethindrone: (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Estradiol; Norgestimate: (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Estradiol; Progesterone: (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Estramustine: (Major) Administration of estramustine with calcium impairs the oral absorption of estramustine significantly, due to formation of a calcium-phosphate complex. Calcium-containing drugs must not be taken simultaneously with estramustine. Patients should be instructed to take estramustine with water at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after calcium supplements.
Estrogens: (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Felodipine: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Ferric Maltol: (Moderate) Antacids (e.g., calcium carbonate, aluminum hydroxide, or magnesium hydroxide) may decrease the absorption of oral iron preparations (e.g., iron salts or polysaccharide-iron complex). At higher pH values, iron is more readily ionized to its ferric state and is more poorly absorbed. Doses of antacids and iron should be taken as far apart as possible to minimize the potential for interaction.
Fexofenadine: (Moderate) Co-administration with antacids within 15 minutes decreases the AUC and Cmax of fexofenadine. Separate administration is recommended.
Fexofenadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Co-administration with antacids within 15 minutes decreases the AUC and Cmax of fexofenadine. Separate administration is recommended. (Minor) It appears that antacids increase pseudoephedrine plasma concentrations. This interaction can be avoided by separating the administration of pseudoephedrine and antacids by 1 to 2 hours. If antacids are used on a regular basis, an alternative to pseudoephedrine may be considered.
flavoxATE: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of calcium carbonate and anticholinergics. Antacids may interfere with the absorption of anticholinergics.
Fludrocortisone: (Moderate) Calcium absorption is reduced when calcium carbonate is taken concomitantly with systemic corticosteroids.
Flunisolide: (Moderate) Calcium absorption is reduced when calcium carbonate is taken concomitantly with systemic corticosteroids.
Fosamprenavir: (Moderate) Administer fosamprenavir at least 1 hour before or 1 hour after calcium carbonate. Coadministration of antacids, such as calcium carbonate, may decrease the exposure of fosamprenavir and impair its efficacy.
Fosinopril: (Moderate) Coadministration of antacids with fosinopril may impair absorption of fosinopril. Therefore, if concomitant administration of these agents is indicated, dosing should be separated by 2 hours.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Coadministration of antacids with fosinopril may impair absorption of fosinopril. Therefore, if concomitant administration of these agents is indicated, dosing should be separated by 2 hours. (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Gastrointestinal Enzymes: (Major) The effectiveness of gastrointestinal enzymes can be diminished with concurrent administration of antacids. In-vitro studies suggest that calcium and magnesum cations exert their deleterious effect on replacement enzyme therapy by formation of poorly soluble calcium or magnesium soaps and precipitation of glycine conjugated bile salts.
Gefitinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of calcium carbonate with gefitinib if possible due to decreased exposure to gefitinib, which may lead to reduced efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, take gefitinib 6 hours after the last dose or 6 hours before the next dose of calcium carbonate. Gefitinib exposure is affected by gastric pH. Coadministration with another drug to maintain gastric pH above 5 decreased gefitinib exposure by 47%.
glipiZIDE: (Moderate) Antacids have been reported to increase the absorption of glipizide, enhancing their hypoglycemic effects. Although the exact mechanism is not known, theoretically it may be due to alterations in gastric pH. Consider closely monitoring blood glucose concentrations.
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Antacids have been reported to increase the absorption of glipizide, enhancing their hypoglycemic effects. Although the exact mechanism is not known, theoretically it may be due to alterations in gastric pH. Consider closely monitoring blood glucose concentrations.
glyBURIDE: (Moderate) Antacids have been reported to increase the absorption of non-micronized glyburide, enhancing their hypoglycemic effects. Although the exact mechanism is not known, theoretically it may be due to alterations in gastric pH. Consider closely monitoring blood glucose concentrations.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Antacids have been reported to increase the absorption of non-micronized glyburide, enhancing their hypoglycemic effects. Although the exact mechanism is not known, theoretically it may be due to alterations in gastric pH. Consider closely monitoring blood glucose concentrations.
Glycopyrrolate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of calcium carbonate and anticholinergics. Antacids may interfere with the absorption of anticholinergics.
Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of calcium carbonate and anticholinergics. Antacids may interfere with the absorption of anticholinergics.
guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) It appears that antacids increase pseudoephedrine plasma concentrations. This interaction can be avoided by separating the administration of pseudoephedrine and antacids by 1 to 2 hours. If antacids are used on a regular basis, an alternative to pseudoephedrine may be considered.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of calcium carbonate and anticholinergics. Antacids may interfere with the absorption of anticholinergics.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Hydroxychloroquine: (Moderate) Hydroxychloroquine absorption may be reduced by antacids as has been observed with the structurally similar chloroquine. Administer hydroxychloroquine and antacids at least 4 hours apart. Of note, a study demonstrated no significant difference in hydroxychloroquine serum concentration in patients taking concomitant antacids (n = 14) compared to those not taking antacids (n = 495).
Hyoscyamine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of calcium carbonate and anticholinergics. Antacids may interfere with the absorption of anticholinergics.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of calcium carbonate and anticholinergics. Antacids may interfere with the absorption of anticholinergics. (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of calcium carbonate and methenamine. Calcium carbonate may cause the urine to become alkaline. This may reduce the effectiveness of methenamine by inhibiting its conversion to formaldehyde.
Ibandronate: (Moderate) Separate administration of oral ibandronate and calcium-containing supplements by at least 1 hour. Calcium will interfere with the absorption of oral ibandronate.
Ibritumomab Tiuxetan: (Moderate) The oral absorption of phosphorus is reduced by ingestion of pharmacologic doses of calcium carbonate or other phosphate-lowering calcium salts (e.g., calcium acetate). There is, however, no significant interference with phosphorus absorption by oral dietary calcium at intakes within the typical adult range. If the patient requires multiple calcium supplements or a calcium-containing antacid, it may be wise to separate the administration of phosphorus salts from calcium-containing products. In some instances the administration of calcium salts or calcium carbonate is used therapeutically (e.g., uremia) to decrease serum phosphorus levels, so the administration of phosphorus supplements would dynamically counteract the intended use of calcium in these settings, assuming hypophosphatemia is not present. Appropriate calcium-phosphorus ratios in vivo are important for proper calcium homeostasis in tissues and bone; if the serum ionized calcium concentration is elevated, the concomitant use of calcium salts and phosphorus salts may increase the risk of calcium deposition in soft tissue.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) It appears that antacids increase pseudoephedrine plasma concentrations. This interaction can be avoided by separating the administration of pseudoephedrine and antacids by 1 to 2 hours. If antacids are used on a regular basis, an alternative to pseudoephedrine may be considered.
Indomethacin: (Moderate) Antacids may inhibit the oral absorption of indomethacin. Simultaneous administration should be avoided; separate dosing by at least 2 hours to limit an interaction.
Infigratinib: (Moderate) Separate the administration of infigratinib and locally acting antacids such as calcium carbonate if concomitant use is necessary. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Administer infigratinib two hours before or after calcium carbonate.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Iron Salts: (Moderate) Antacids (e.g., calcium carbonate, aluminum hydroxide, or magnesium hydroxide) may decrease the absorption of oral iron preparations (e.g., iron salts or polysaccharide-iron complex). At higher pH values, iron is more readily ionized to its ferric state and is more poorly absorbed. Doses of antacids and iron should be taken as far apart as possible to minimize the potential for interaction.
Iron: (Moderate) Antacids (e.g., calcium carbonate, aluminum hydroxide, or magnesium hydroxide) may decrease the absorption of oral iron preparations (e.g., iron salts or polysaccharide-iron complex). At higher pH values, iron is more readily ionized to its ferric state and is more poorly absorbed. Doses of antacids and iron should be taken as far apart as possible to minimize the potential for interaction.
Isradipine: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Itraconazole: (Moderate) When administering antacids with the 100 mg itraconazole capsule and 200 mg itraconazole tablet formulations, systemic exposure to itraconazole is decreased. Conversely, exposure to itraconazole is increased when antacids are administered with the 65 mg itraconazole capsule. Administer antacids at least 2 hours before or 2 hours after the 100 mg capsule or 200 mg tablet. Monitor for increased itraconazole-related adverse effects if antacids are administered with itraconazole 65 mg capsules.
Ketoconazole: (Moderate) Administer calcium carbonate at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after taking ketoconazole. Antacids can impair the absorption of ketoconazole.
Lactulose: (Minor) Oral, nonabsorbable antacids may interfere with the decrease in colon pH necessary for lactulose's action.
Ledipasvir; Sofosbuvir: (Moderate) Separate administration of ledipasvir and antacids by at least 4 hours. Solubility of ledipasvir decreases as gastric pH increases; thus, simultaneous administration of these drugs may result in lower ledipasvir plasma concentrations.
Levamlodipine: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
levoFLOXacin: (Moderate) Administer oral products that contain calcium at least 2 hours before or 2 hours after orally administered levofloxacin. Levofloxacin absorption may be reduced as quinolone antibiotics can chelate with divalent or trivalent cations. Chelation of divalent cations with levofloxacin is less than with other quinolones. Examples of compounds that may interfere with quinolone bioavailability include antacids and multivitamins that contain calcium.
Levoketoconazole: (Moderate) Administer calcium carbonate at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after taking ketoconazole. Antacids can impair the absorption of ketoconazole.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) Antacids (e.g., calcium carbonate, aluminum hydroxide, or magnesium hydroxide) may decrease the absorption of oral iron preparations (e.g., iron salts or polysaccharide-iron complex). At higher pH values, iron is more readily ionized to its ferric state and is more poorly absorbed. Doses of antacids and iron should be taken as far apart as possible to minimize the potential for interaction. (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Moderate) Antacids (e.g., calcium carbonate, aluminum hydroxide, or magnesium hydroxide) may decrease the absorption of oral iron preparations (e.g., iron salts or polysaccharide-iron complex). At higher pH values, iron is more readily ionized to its ferric state and is more poorly absorbed. Doses of antacids and iron should be taken as far apart as possible to minimize the potential for interaction. (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Levothyroxine: (Moderate) Thyroid hormones should be administered at least 4 hours before or after the ingestion of oral calcium supplements. Calcium salts have been reported to chelate oral thyroid hormones within the GI tract when administered simultaneously, leading to decreased thyroid hormone absorption. Some case reports have described clinical hypothyroidism resulting from coadministration of thyroid hormones with oral calcium supplements.
Levothyroxine; Liothyronine (Porcine): (Moderate) Thyroid hormones should be administered at least 4 hours before or after the ingestion of oral calcium supplements. Calcium salts have been reported to chelate oral thyroid hormones within the GI tract when administered simultaneously, leading to decreased thyroid hormone absorption. Some case reports have described clinical hypothyroidism resulting from coadministration of thyroid hormones with oral calcium supplements.
Liothyronine: (Moderate) Thyroid hormones should be administered at least 4 hours before or after the ingestion of oral calcium supplements. Calcium salts have been reported to chelate oral thyroid hormones within the GI tract when administered simultaneously, leading to decreased thyroid hormone absorption. Some case reports have described clinical hypothyroidism resulting from coadministration of thyroid hormones with oral calcium supplements.
Lisdexamfetamine: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in amphetamine-related adverse effects during concomitant antacid use. Increasing gastric or urine pH may increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for side effects in some patients. As antacids have rarely been observed to increase gastric or urinary pH above 6.5, antacid-related pH changes may be insufficient to warrant clinical concern in most patients.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Lithium: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentrations closely if concomitant use of calcium and lithium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hypercalcemia.
Loratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) It appears that antacids increase pseudoephedrine plasma concentrations. This interaction can be avoided by separating the administration of pseudoephedrine and antacids by 1 to 2 hours. If antacids are used on a regular basis, an alternative to pseudoephedrine may be considered.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Mefenamic Acid: (Moderate) Ingestion of mefenamic acid with antacids is not recommended. Administration with an antacid containing 1.7 grams of magnesium hydroxide resulted in a 36 percent increase in the area under the time versus concentration curve of mefenamic acid.
Mefloquine: (Moderate) Antacids, H2-blockers, and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may increase plasma concentrations of mefloquine. In a small study involving 6 healthy subjects and 6 peptic ulcer patients, cimetidine increased the Cmax and AUC of mefloquine. In the study, the pharmacokinetics of mefloquine were determined after receiving a single oral mefloquine 500 mg dose alone and after 3-days of cimetidine 400 mg PO bid. In both healthy subjects and peptic ulcer patients, mefloquine Cmax was increased 42.4% and 20.5%, respectively, and AUC was increased by 37.5% in both groups. Elimination half-life, total clearance, and volume of distribution were not significantly affected. An increase in adverse reactions was not noted. Patients on chronic mefloquine therapy might be at increased risk of adverse reactions, especially in patients with a neurological or psychiatric history.
Mesalamine, 5-ASA: (Moderate) Do not coadminister mesalamine extended-release capsules (Apriso) with antacids. Apriso is a pH-dependent, delayed-release capsule product with an enteric coating that dissolves at a pH of at least 6. Other mesalamine products do not have an interaction with antacids.
Methamphetamine: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in amphetamine-related adverse effects during concomitant antacid use. Increasing gastric or urine pH may increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for side effects in some patients. As antacids have rarely been observed to increase gastric or urinary pH above 6.5, antacid-related pH changes may be insufficient to warrant clinical concern in most patients.
Methenamine: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of calcium carbonate and methenamine. Calcium carbonate may cause the urine to become alkaline. This may reduce the effectiveness of methenamine by inhibiting its conversion to formaldehyde.
Methenamine; Sodium Acid Phosphate; Methylene Blue; Hyoscyamine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of calcium carbonate and anticholinergics. Antacids may interfere with the absorption of anticholinergics. (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of calcium carbonate and methenamine. Calcium carbonate may cause the urine to become alkaline. This may reduce the effectiveness of methenamine by inhibiting its conversion to formaldehyde.
Methenamine; Sodium Salicylate: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of calcium carbonate and methenamine. Calcium carbonate may cause the urine to become alkaline. This may reduce the effectiveness of methenamine by inhibiting its conversion to formaldehyde.
Methscopolamine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of calcium carbonate and anticholinergics. Antacids may interfere with the absorption of anticholinergics.
metOLazone: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Minocycline: (Moderate) Divalent or trivalent cations readily chelate with tetracycline antibiotics, forming insoluble compounds. The oral absorption of these antibiotics will be significantly reduced by other orally administered compounds that contain calcium salts, particularly if the time of administration is within 60 minutes of each other. Calcium salts and tetracyclines should not be administered within 1 to 2 hours of each other, although doxycycline chelates less with calcium than other tetracyclines.
Moxifloxacin: (Major) Administer oral moxifloxacin at least 4 hours before or 8 hours after oral products that contain calcium. Moxifloxacin absorption may be reduced as quinolone antibiotics can chelate with divalent or trivalent cations. Examples of compounds that may interfere with quinolone bioavailability include antacids and multivitamins that contain calcium.
Mycophenolate: (Major) Coadministration of mycophenolate mofetil with antacids decreases the bioavailability of mycophenolate mofetil. Aluminum or magnesium hydroxide antacids decrease AUC of mycophenolic acid by about 17%. Avoid administration of mycophenolate mofetil with agents that may decrease its absorption.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) It appears that antacids increase pseudoephedrine plasma concentrations. This interaction can be avoided by separating the administration of pseudoephedrine and antacids by 1 to 2 hours. If antacids are used on a regular basis, an alternative to pseudoephedrine may be considered.
Neostigmine; Glycopyrrolate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of calcium carbonate and anticholinergics. Antacids may interfere with the absorption of anticholinergics.
Neratinib: (Major) Administer neratinib at least 3 hours after administration of calcium carbonate if concomitant use is necessary due to decreased absorption and systemic exposure of neratinib; the solubility of neratinib decreases with increasing pH of the GI tract.
Neuromuscular blockers: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium may result in resistance to neuromuscular blockade. Calcium antagonizes the potentiating effect of magnesium on neuromuscular blockade. Also, calcium triggers acetylcholine release, and therefore, may both reduce the sensitivity to neuromuscular blockers and decrease the duration of neuromuscular blockade.
NiCARdipine: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
NIFEdipine: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Nilotinib: (Moderate) If therapy that alters gastric pH is required, consider the use of nilotinib oral disintegrating tablets or separate the administration of an antacid and nilotinib capsules or tablets by at least 2 hours. Nilotinib capsules and tablets display pH-dependent solubility and therapy that raises gastric pH may interfere with nilotinib absorption and reduce nilotinib exposure and efficacy.
niMODipine: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Nirogacestat: (Moderate) Separate the administration of nirogacestat and antacids by at least 2 hours. Simultaneous coadministration may impair nirogacestat absorption resulting in reduced exposure and efficacy.
Nisoldipine: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) Antacids (e.g., calcium carbonate, aluminum hydroxide, or magnesium hydroxide) may decrease the absorption of oral iron preparations (e.g., iron salts or polysaccharide-iron complex). At higher pH values, iron is more readily ionized to its ferric state and is more poorly absorbed. Doses of antacids and iron should be taken as far apart as possible to minimize the potential for interaction. (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) Antacids (e.g., calcium carbonate, aluminum hydroxide, or magnesium hydroxide) may decrease the absorption of oral iron preparations (e.g., iron salts or polysaccharide-iron complex). At higher pH values, iron is more readily ionized to its ferric state and is more poorly absorbed. Doses of antacids and iron should be taken as far apart as possible to minimize the potential for interaction. (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Octreotide: (Moderate) Coadministration of oral octreotide with antacids may require increased doses of octreotide. Coadministration of oral octreotide with drugs that alter the pH of the upper GI tract, including antacids, may alter the absorption of octreotide and lead to a reduction in bioavailability.
Ofloxacin: (Moderate) Administer oral products that contain calcium at least 2 hours before or 2 hours after ofloxacin. Ofloxacin absorption may be reduced as quinolone antibiotics can chelate with divalent or trivalent cations. Examples of compounds that may interfere with quinolone bioavailability include antacids and multivitamins that contain calcium.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium. (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Omadacycline: (Moderate) Divalent or trivalent cations readily chelate with tetracycline antibiotics, forming insoluble compounds. The oral absorption of these antibiotics will be significantly reduced by other orally administered compounds that contain calcium salts, particularly if the time of administration is within 60 minutes of each other. Calcium salts and tetracyclines should not be administered within 1 to 2 hours of each other, although doxycycline chelates less with calcium than other tetracyclines.
oxyBUTYnin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of calcium carbonate and anticholinergics. Antacids may interfere with the absorption of anticholinergics.
Pancrelipase: (Major) The effectiveness of gastrointestinal enzymes can be diminished with concurrent administration of antacids. In-vitro studies suggest that calcium and magnesum cations exert their deleterious effect on replacement enzyme therapy by formation of poorly soluble calcium or magnesium soaps and precipitation of glycine conjugated bile salts.
Parathyroid Hormone: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentrations closely if concomitant use of calcium and parathyroid hormone is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hypercalcemia.
Paricalcitol: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentrations during concomitant use of high doses of calcium and vitamin D analogs; a dosage adjustment of the vitamin D analog may be needed. Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by concomitant administration.
PAZOPanib: (Moderate) Separate administration of pazopanib and antacids by several hours if coadministration is necessary in order to avoid a reduction in pazopanib exposure, which may decrease efficacy.
penicillAMINE: (Moderate) Because penicillamine chelates heavy metals, it is possible that antacids could reduce penicillamine bioavailability, which can decrease the therapeutic effects of penicillamine. Simultaneous administration should be avoided; separate dosing by at least 2 hours to limit an interaction.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of calcium carbonate and anticholinergics. Antacids may interfere with the absorption of anticholinergics.
Phenytoin: (Moderate) Calcium carbonate can significantly decrease the oral bioavailability of phenytoin. Calcium carbonate should not affect the pharmacokinetics of parenteral phenytoin. Separating the administration of phenytoin and calcium carbonate by at least 2 hours will help minimize the possibility of an interaction.
Phosphorated Carbohydrate Solution: (Moderate) The oral absorption of phosphorus is reduced by ingestion of pharmacologic doses of calcium carbonate or other phosphate-lowering calcium salts (e.g., calcium acetate). There is, however, no significant interference with phosphorus absorption by oral dietary calcium at intakes within the typical adult range. If the patient requires multiple calcium supplements or a calcium-containing antacid, it may be wise to separate the administration of phosphorus salts from calcium-containing products. In some instances the administration of calcium salts or calcium carbonate is used therapeutically (e.g., uremia) to decrease serum phosphorus levels, so the administration of phosphorus supplements would dynamically counteract the intended use of calcium in these settings, assuming hypophosphatemia is not present. Appropriate calcium-phosphorus ratios in vivo are important for proper calcium homeostasis in tissues and bone; if the serum ionized calcium concentration is elevated, the concomitant use of calcium salts and phosphorus salts may increase the risk of calcium deposition in soft tissue.
Phosphorus: (Moderate) The oral absorption of phosphorus is reduced by ingestion of pharmacologic doses of calcium carbonate or other phosphate-lowering calcium salts (e.g., calcium acetate). There is, however, no significant interference with phosphorus absorption by oral dietary calcium at intakes within the typical adult range. If the patient requires multiple calcium supplements or a calcium-containing antacid, it may be wise to separate the administration of phosphorus salts from calcium-containing products. In some instances the administration of calcium salts or calcium carbonate is used therapeutically (e.g., uremia) to decrease serum phosphorus levels, so the administration of phosphorus supplements would dynamically counteract the intended use of calcium in these settings, assuming hypophosphatemia is not present. Appropriate calcium-phosphorus ratios in vivo are important for proper calcium homeostasis in tissues and bone; if the serum ionized calcium concentration is elevated, the concomitant use of calcium salts and phosphorus salts may increase the risk of calcium deposition in soft tissue.
Polyethylene Glycol; Electrolytes; Bisacodyl: (Moderate) By increasing intragastric pH, calcium carbonate can affect the dissolution of oral bisacodyl tablets; administration should be separated by 1 hour.
Polysaccharide-Iron Complex: (Moderate) Antacids (e.g., calcium carbonate, aluminum hydroxide, or magnesium hydroxide) may decrease the absorption of oral iron preparations (e.g., iron salts or polysaccharide-iron complex). At higher pH values, iron is more readily ionized to its ferric state and is more poorly absorbed. Doses of antacids and iron should be taken as far apart as possible to minimize the potential for interaction.
Potassium Phosphate: (Moderate) The oral absorption of phosphorus is reduced by ingestion of pharmacologic doses of calcium carbonate or other phosphate-lowering calcium salts (e.g., calcium acetate). There is, however, no significant interference with phosphorus absorption by oral dietary calcium at intakes within the typical adult range. If the patient requires multiple calcium supplements or a calcium-containing antacid, it may be wise to separate the administration of phosphorus salts from calcium-containing products. In some instances the administration of calcium salts or calcium carbonate is used therapeutically (e.g., uremia) to decrease serum phosphorus levels, so the administration of phosphorus supplements would dynamically counteract the intended use of calcium in these settings, assuming hypophosphatemia is not present. Appropriate calcium-phosphorus ratios in vivo are important for proper calcium homeostasis in tissues and bone; if the serum ionized calcium concentration is elevated, the concomitant use of calcium salts and phosphorus salts may increase the risk of calcium deposition in soft tissue.
Potassium Phosphate; Sodium Phosphate: (Moderate) The oral absorption of phosphorus is reduced by ingestion of pharmacologic doses of calcium carbonate or other phosphate-lowering calcium salts (e.g., calcium acetate). There is, however, no significant interference with phosphorus absorption by oral dietary calcium at intakes within the typical adult range. If the patient requires multiple calcium supplements or a calcium-containing antacid, it may be wise to separate the administration of phosphorus salts from calcium-containing products. In some instances the administration of calcium salts or calcium carbonate is used therapeutically (e.g., uremia) to decrease serum phosphorus levels, so the administration of phosphorus supplements would dynamically counteract the intended use of calcium in these settings, assuming hypophosphatemia is not present. Appropriate calcium-phosphorus ratios in vivo are important for proper calcium homeostasis in tissues and bone; if the serum ionized calcium concentration is elevated, the concomitant use of calcium salts and phosphorus salts may increase the risk of calcium deposition in soft tissue.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Antacids may reduce the absorption of propranolol. The need to stagger doses of propranolol has not been established, but may be prudent. Monitor clinical response, and adjust propranolol dosage if needed to attain therapeutic goals.
Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) It appears that antacids increase pseudoephedrine plasma concentrations. This interaction can be avoided by separating the administration of pseudoephedrine and antacids by 1 to 2 hours. If antacids are used on a regular basis, an alternative to pseudoephedrine may be considered.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Minor) It appears that antacids increase pseudoephedrine plasma concentrations. This interaction can be avoided by separating the administration of pseudoephedrine and antacids by 1 to 2 hours. If antacids are used on a regular basis, an alternative to pseudoephedrine may be considered.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
quiNIDine: (Major) By increasing urinary pH, calcium carbonate can decrease the urinary excretion of quinidine.
quiNINE: (Major) Antacids may delay or decrease the absorption of quinine.
Raltegravir: (Major) Coadministration of calcium carbonate with raltegravir administered as a once daily dose (high dose regimen) is not recommended. Coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of raltegravir, which may lead to HIV treatment failure or the development of viral resistance. Calcium carbonate may be given with other dosage regimens of raltegravir with no dose adjustments necessary. In a drug interaction study (n = 19), the AUC of raltegravir, given as a single 1200 mg dose, was decreased by 72% (90% CI, 68% to 76%) when administered with a calcium carbonate antacid.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
rifAMPin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of calcium carbonate and rifampin may decrease the absorption of rifampin. Daily doses of rifampin should be given at least 1 hour before the ingestion of calcium carbonate.
Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of rilpivirine and antacids may significantly decrease rilpivirine plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in treatment failure. To decrease the risk of virologic failure, avoid use of antacids for at least 2 hours before and at least 4 hours after administering rilpivirine.
Rilzabrutinib: (Moderate) Separate the administration of rilzabrutinib and antacids, such as oral calcium carbonate, if concomitant use is necessary: administer rilzabrutinib at least 2 hours before an antacid. Simultaneous coadministration may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure and reduce rilzabrutinib efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is pH soluble and antacids alter gastric pH.
Riociguat: (Major) Separate administration of riociguat from antacids by at least 1 hour. Antacids such as aluminum hydroxide/magnesium hydroxide decrease riociguat absorption.
Risedronate: (Moderate) Separate administration of oral risedronate and calcium-containing supplements by at least 2 hours. Calcium will interfere with the absorption of oral risedronate.
Rocuronium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium may result in resistance to neuromuscular blockade. Calcium antagonizes the potentiating effect of magnesium on neuromuscular blockade. Also, calcium triggers acetylcholine release, and therefore, may both reduce the sensitivity to neuromuscular blockers and decrease the duration of neuromuscular blockade.
Rosuvastatin: (Moderate) Administer rosuvastatin at least 2 hours before an antacid, such as oral calcium carbonate. Simultaneous coadministration with an antacid has been observed to decrease rosuvastatin overall exposure by 50% which may reduce its efficacy.
Rosuvastatin; Ezetimibe: (Moderate) Administer rosuvastatin at least 2 hours before an antacid, such as oral calcium carbonate. Simultaneous coadministration with an antacid has been observed to decrease rosuvastatin overall exposure by 50% which may reduce its efficacy.
Sarecycline: (Moderate) Divalent or trivalent cations readily chelate with tetracycline antibiotics, forming insoluble compounds. The oral absorption of these antibiotics will be significantly reduced by other orally administered compounds that contain calcium salts, particularly if the time of administration is within 60 minutes of each other. Calcium salts and tetracyclines should not be administered within 1 to 2 hours of each other, although doxycycline chelates less with calcium than other tetracyclines.
Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of calcium carbonate and anticholinergics. Antacids may interfere with the absorption of anticholinergics.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens can increase calcium absorption. Use caution in patients predisposed to hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis.
Selpercatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of selpercatinib with calcium carbonate due to the risk of decreased selpercatinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, take selpercatinib 2 hours before or 2 hours after administration of calcium carbonate. Coadministration with acid-reducing agents decreases selpercatinib plasma concentrations.
Sodium Ferric Gluconate Complex; Ferric Pyrophosphate Citrate: (Moderate) Antacids (e.g., calcium carbonate, aluminum hydroxide, or magnesium hydroxide) may decrease the absorption of oral iron preparations (e.g., iron salts or polysaccharide-iron complex). At higher pH values, iron is more readily ionized to its ferric state and is more poorly absorbed. Doses of antacids and iron should be taken as far apart as possible to minimize the potential for interaction.
Sodium Fluoride: (Moderate) Absorption of sodium fluoride may be reduced by concomitant use of antacids that contain magnesium, aluminum, or calcium. An interval of at least 2 hours is advisable between administration of sodium fluoride and antacids.
Sodium Phosphate Monobasic Monohydrate; Sodium Phosphate Dibasic Anhydrous: (Moderate) The concomitant use of oral sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous preparations in conjunction with antacids containing calcium (e.g., calcium carbonate, calcium salts) may bind the phosphate in the stomach and reduce its absorption. If the patient requires multiple mineral supplements or concurrent use of antacids, it is prudent to separate the administration of sodium phosphate salts from calcium containing products by at least one hour.
Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate: (Major) Simultaneous oral administration of cation-donating antacids or laxatives may reduce the potassium exchange capability of sodium polystyrene sulfonate. Examples of cation-donating antacids and laxatives include aluminum hydroxide, calcium carbonate, magnesium carbonate, magnesium citrate, and magnesium hydroxide. Patients who received concomitant oral sodium polystyrene sulfonate and non-absorbable cation-donating antacids and laxatives have developed systemic alkalosis. Intestinal obstruction due to concretions of aluminum hydroxide when used in combination with sodium polystyrene sulfonate has also been reported. One case of grand mal seizure has been reported in a patient with chronic hypocalcemia of renal failure who was given sodium polystyrene with magnesium hydroxide as laxative. Normally, antacids like magnesium hydroxide and calcium carbonate neutralize hydrochloric acid in the stomach, forming magnesium chloride and calcium chloride. As these compounds enter the small intestine, they react with bicarbonate, forming magnesium carbonate and calcium carbonate, which are insoluble. If polystyrene is administered, it blocks this reaction by binding to the magnesium and calcium ions before they can react with the bicarbonate. More hydrogen ions are lost from the stomach than are lost from the intestine, resulting in metabolic alkalosis. Rectal administration of sodium polystyrene sulfonate may reduce the severity of these interactions.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir: (Moderate) Separate the use of antacids (e.g., calcium carbonate) and sofosbuvir; velpatasvir administration by 4 hours. Velpatasvir solubility decreases as pH increases; therefore, drugs that increase gastric pH are expected to decrease the concentrations of velpatasvir, potentially resulting in loss of antiviral efficacy.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir; Voxilaprevir: (Moderate) Separate the use of antacids (e.g., calcium carbonate) and sofosbuvir; velpatasvir administration by 4 hours. Velpatasvir solubility decreases as pH increases; therefore, drugs that increase gastric pH are expected to decrease the concentrations of velpatasvir, potentially resulting in loss of antiviral efficacy.
Sotalol: (Moderate) Coadministration of antacids with sotalol reduces the Cmax and AUC of sotalol by 26% and 20%, respectively. This interaction results in a 25% reduction in the bradycardic effect of sotalol (measured at rest). Administer antacids two hours after the sotalol dose to avoid altering sotalol pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics.
Sotorasib: (Moderate) Avoid coadministration of sotorasib and gastric-reducing agents, such as antacids including calcium carbonate. Coadministration may decrease sotorasib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. If coadministration with calcium carbonate is necessary, administer sotorasib 4 hours before or 10 hours after calcium carbonate.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Succinylcholine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium may result in resistance to neuromuscular blockade. Calcium antagonizes the potentiating effect of magnesium on neuromuscular blockade. Also, calcium triggers acetylcholine release, and therefore, may both reduce the sensitivity to neuromuscular blockers and decrease the duration of neuromuscular blockade.
Sucralfate: (Moderate) Oral antacids, including calcium carbonate, potentially interfere with gastric mucosal binding of sucralfate. This interaction can be minimized by staggering the doses of these agents as much as possible.
Sulfacetamide; Sulfur: (Major) Because edetate disodium chelates and lowers serum calcium, oral or parenteral calcium salts should not be administered concomitantly.
Taletrectinib: (Moderate) Separate the administration of taletrectinib and locally acting antacids, such as oral calcium carbonate, by at least 2 hours. Simultaneous coadministration may interfere with taletrectinib absorption and decrease taletrectinib exposure and efficacy.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Teriparatide: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentrations closely if concomitant use of calcium and teriparatide is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hypercalcemia.
Tetracycline: (Moderate) Divalent or trivalent cations readily chelate with tetracycline antibiotics, forming insoluble compounds. The oral absorption of these antibiotics will be significantly reduced by other orally administered compounds that contain calcium salts, particularly if the time of administration is within 60 minutes of each other. Calcium salts and tetracyclines should not be administered within 1 to 2 hours of each other, although doxycycline chelates less with calcium than other tetracyclines.
Tetracyclines: (Moderate) Divalent or trivalent cations readily chelate with tetracycline antibiotics, forming insoluble compounds. The oral absorption of these antibiotics will be significantly reduced by other orally administered compounds that contain calcium salts, particularly if the time of administration is within 60 minutes of each other. Calcium salts and tetracyclines should not be administered within 1 to 2 hours of each other, although doxycycline chelates less with calcium than other tetracyclines.
Thiazide diuretics: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Thiothixene: (Major) Antacids may reduce the oral availablility of thiothixene. To avoid this, administer thiothixene at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after the antacid.
Thyroid hormones: (Moderate) Thyroid hormones should be administered at least 4 hours before or after the ingestion of oral calcium supplements. Calcium salts have been reported to chelate oral thyroid hormones within the GI tract when administered simultaneously, leading to decreased thyroid hormone absorption. Some case reports have described clinical hypothyroidism resulting from coadministration of thyroid hormones with oral calcium supplements.
Tipranavir: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of tipranavir and ritonavir with antacids results in decreased tipranavir concentrations. Administer tipranavir and ritonavir 2 hours before or 1 hour after antacids.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Trihexyphenidyl: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of calcium carbonate and anticholinergics. Antacids may interfere with the absorption of anticholinergics.
Vadadustat: (Moderate) Administer vadadustat at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after non-iron-containing phosphate binders, such as calcium carbonate. Taking these medications together at the same time interferes with vadadustat oral absorption and has been observed to decrease overall exposure by nearly 50%, which may reduce its efficacy. Administration of vadadustat at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after minimizes the risk of this interaction.
Valproic Acid, Divalproex Sodium: (Minor) Antacids may increase valproic acid AUC. Patients should be monitored for adverse effects in this situation.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Vecuronium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium may result in resistance to neuromuscular blockade. Calcium antagonizes the potentiating effect of magnesium on neuromuscular blockade. Also, calcium triggers acetylcholine release, and therefore, may both reduce the sensitivity to neuromuscular blockers and decrease the duration of neuromuscular blockade.
Verapamil: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Vitamin A: (Minor) Doses in excess of 1,500 to 2,000 mcg per day of Vitamin A may lead to bone loss and will counteract the effects of supplementation with calcium salts.
Vitamin D analogs: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentrations during concomitant use of high doses of calcium and vitamin D analogs; a dosage adjustment of the vitamin D analog may be needed. Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by concomitant administration.
Ziftomenib: (Moderate) Separate the administration of ziftomenib and a locally acting antacid, such as oral calcium carbonate, if concomitant use is necessary: administer ziftomenib at least 2 hours before or after the antacid. Simultaneous coadministration may decrease ziftomenib absorption and reduce ziftomenib exposure and efficacy. Ziftomenib is pH soluble and antacids alter gastric pH. Administering ziftomenib 2 hours before or after an antacid is expected to mitigate this interaction.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    constipation, eructation, flatulence, gastric hypersecretion, hypermagnesemia
    General Information
    Administration of calcium carbonate; magnesium hydroxide; simethicone can cause gastric hypersecretion and acid rebound. For this reason, the calcium carbonate component is not a good choice for the adjunctive treatment of peptic ulcer disease. Other common GI adverse reactions to calcium carbonate therapy include flatulence, gastric distension, constipation, and eructation. If magnesium hydroxide is used in patients with impaired renal function or at high doses for extended periods of time, hypermagnesemia may occur. Hypermagnesemia results in a depressant effect on the central nervous system (causing anorexia and nausea) and neuromuscular system (causing decreased deep tendon reflexes and skeletal muscle weakness). Hypotension, muscle weakness, and electrocardiographic changes may be indicative of magnesium toxicity. Troublesome adverse events reported with simethicone are infrequent; the more common and mild side effects include eructation and flatulence as air bubbles and gas are eliminated from the GI tract. The drug is not absorbed systemically.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      eructation
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      flatulence
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      gastric hypersecretion
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hypermagnesemia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    abdominal pain, diarrhea, hypercalcemia, metabolic alkalosis, milk-alkali syndrome, nausea, nephrolithiasis
    General Information
    Large doses of calcium carbonate; magnesium hydroxide; simethicone can lead to the development of hypercalcemia or nephrolithiasis (kidney stones or renal calculi) in susceptible patients. Clinical manifestations of hypercalcemia may include anorexia, thirst, nausea, vomiting, constipation, abdominal pain, muscle weakness (myasthenia), fatigue, mental disturbances, polydipsia, polyuria, bone pain, nephrocalcinosis, renal calculi (nephrolithiasis) and in severe cases, cardiac arrhythmias. Milk-alkali syndrome, characterized by hypercalcemia and metabolic alkalosis and, if left untreated, renal failure can occur during prolonged therapy with oral calcium antacids. Abdominal pain, diarrhea, and nausea are uncommonly reported with simethicone use at usual doses.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      hypercalcemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      metabolic alkalosis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      milk-alkali syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      nephrolithiasis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    hypophosphatemia
    General Information
    Hypophosphatemia, though rare, can potentially occur in patients during chronic calcium carbonate therapy if dietary phosphate levels are low due to the malabsorption of phosphate from the diet as calcium carbonate binds with phosphate in the gut.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypophosphatemia
      Severity
      Moderate

Description
  Text
  Calcium carbonate; magnesium hydroxide; simethicone is a combination used to treat heartburn and gas associated with dyspepsia (acid indigestion). Calcium carbonate and magnesium hydroxide are antacids, and simethicone is an oral antiflatulent agent. Simethicone is used to relieve the pain and pressure of excess gas in the digestive tract. Together, these drugs treat the symptoms of upset stomach and gas associated with heartburn, acid indigestion, and sour stomach. These products are used in adult and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older without a prescription for up to 2 weeks.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Calcium Carbonate: As an antacid, calcium carbonate neutralizes gastric acidity resulting in increased gastric and duodenal pH. The calcium released from calcium carbonate is known to increase peristalsis in the esophagus, pushing the acid into the stomach and provide relief from symptoms of heartburn. Calcium is the fifth most abundant element in the body. Calcium is a divalent metal essential for the maintenance of the nervous, muscular, and skeletal systems and for cell membrane and capillary permeability. Its role in bone structure and muscle contraction is well known, but calcium is also important for blood coagulation, nerve conduction, and electrical conduction in the heart. Calcium stimulates gastrin secretion, which offsets the utility of oral calcium carbonate as a treatment of peptic ulcer disease. Growing evidence suggests that calcium accumulates readily in atherosclerotic plaques, although this does not appear to be related to exogenous calcium administration. Parathyroid hormone (PTH), vitamin D, and, to a lesser extent, calcitonin, glucocorticoids, and magnesium influence calcium balance.
Magnesium Hydroxide: Magnesium hydroxide rapidly reacts with gastric acid to form water and magnesium chloride, which neutralizes gastric acid. The wall of the small intestine acts as a semipermeable membrane to magnesium and retains the highly osmotic ion in the intestine. The presence of the magnesium ion draws water into the intestine, causing an increase in intraluminal pressure. This increased pressure exerts a mechanical stimulus that increases intestinal motility. There is also evidence that magnesium, and other saline laxatives, stimulate the release of the hormone cholecystokinin-pancreozymin, which favors accumulation of fluid and electrolytes within the intestinal lumen.
Simethicone: As an antiflatulent, simethicone has been shown in vitro to disperse and prevent the formation of mucus-surrounded gas pockets in the GI tract. Changing the surface tension of the gas bubble prevents these pockets. The gas bubbles coalesce and are more quickly eliminated by flatus, belching, or absorption into the bloodstream. These actions in vivo have not been clearly established.

Pharmacokinetics
  Special Populations
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    No specific pharmacokinetic data are available for these combination products. In patients with end-stage renal disease, adjust any routine dosage of calcium carbonate according to patient response and serum calcium and phosphate concentrations, due to the effects of calcium carbonate supplementation on calcium and phosphate concentrations. Calcium carbonate should be administered with caution in patients with a CrCl less than 30 mL/minute to avoid elevations of calcitonin-phosphorus ion products and further development of calcinosis. In patients with renal impairment, the amount of magnesium absorbed is significant enough to produce hypermagnesemia.
  Text
  Calcium carbonate; magnesium hydroxide; simethicone products are administered orally.
Calcium carbonate: After absorption, approximately 50% of calcium in the serum is in the physiologically active ionized form; about 10% is complexed to phosphate, citrate or other anions. The remaining 40% is bound to proteins, primarily albumin. Unabsorbed calcium from the small intestine is excreted in the feces. Renal excretion depends largely on glomerular filtration and calcium tubular reabsorption with more than 98% of calcium reabsorbed from the glomerular filtrate. This process is regulated by active vitamin D and parathyroid hormone (PTH). The amount excreted in the urine varies with the degree of calcium absorption, the rate of bone turnover, and renal conservation status. Calcium is excreted in the urine (roughly 20%); urinary excretion of calcium is often measured as a marker for calcium bioavailability in clinical studies.
Magnesium hydroxide: In the stomach, magnesium hydroxide reacts with hydrochloric acid to form magnesium chloride. Approximately 15% to 30% of the magnesium chloride is absorbed and rapidly excreted by the kidneys in patients with normal renal function. Any magnesium hydroxide that is not converted to magnesium chloride is subsequently changed in the small intestine to soluble but poorly absorbed salts. The magnesium that is not absorbed remains in the GI tract and is excreted in the feces.
Simethicone: Simethicone is physiologically inert and not systemically absorbed. Similarly, the body does not metabolize simethicone. Simethicone is excreted unchanged in the feces. Simethicone is not known to interfere with gastric secretion or nutrient absorption.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Chewable Tablets
Chew thoroughly as directed before swallowing.
      Name
      Oral Liquid Formulations
      Description
      Oral suspension
Shake well prior to each administration.
Measure each dose with an oral calibrated measuring device to ensure accuracy of dosing. Most suspensions come with a dosing cup.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    Maximum dosage information is dependent on product and formulation. Usual 60 mL/day PO for marketed oral suspensions.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    Maximum dosage information is dependent on product and formulation. Usual 60 mL/day PO for marketed oral suspensions.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Maximum dosage information is dependent on product and formulation. Usual 60 mL/day PO for marketed oral suspensions.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    12 years: Maximum dosage information is dependent on product and formulation. Usual 60 mL/day PO for marketed oral suspensions.
Less than 12 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
  Renal Impairment
  Patients with renal impairment should consult their care team before use. In general, avoid use in renal failure.
