=== Alirocumab — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 4019)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Alirocumab is a proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9) inhibitor indicated as adjunct treatment to diet and exercise for the treatment of hypercholesterolemia, including heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH), and for the treatment of homozygous familial...

Routes: injection (IV/IM/SC); Common adult doses: 150 mg subcutaneously every 2 weeks.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): angioedema, pruritus, vasculitis, ecchymosis, edema, erythema, injection site reaction

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. pregnancy Due to a lack of human data, guidelines recommend avoiding the use of alirocumab during pregnancy. Animal data indicate that alirocumab crosses the placental barrier.

ALIROCUMAB

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Praluent

Indication Specific Dosing


The estimated LDL-C reduction with alirocumab is approximately 45% to 58% when added to maximally tolerated statin therapy. Due to low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR) gene variants, a lower mean LDL-C reduction occurs in homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (21% to 31% LDL-C reduction).
Alirocumab is recommended as second-line therapy in addition to maximally tolerated statin therapy in individuals with atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) who require additional lipid-lowering therapy to achieve lipoprotein goals (e.g., LDL-C, non-HDL-C). Factors to consider include the benefit of ASCVD risk reduction, degree of desired LDL-C reduction, and administration by subcutaneous injection.


For the treatment of hypercholesterolemia, including heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia

For the treatment of hypercholesterolemia, including heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia, as an adjunct to diet and exercise to reduce LDL-C
Subcutaneous dosage
Adults


75 mg subcutaneously every 2 weeks or 300 mg subcutaneously every 4 weeks. Monitor LDL-C as clinically appropriate; the LDL-lowering effect may be measured as early as 4 weeks after starting therapy. Measure LDL-C just before next dose in persons receiving 300 mg subcutaneously every 4 weeks. May adjust dose to 150 mg subcutaneously every 2 weeks if response is inadequate.


For the treatment of heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia in adults undergoing LDL apheresis
Subcutaneous dosage
Adults


150 mg subcutaneously every 2 weeks. May be administered without regard to the timing of LDL apheresis. Monitor LDL-C as clinically appropriate; the LDL-lowering effect may be measured as early as 4 weeks after starting therapy.


For the treatment of heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia in pediatric individuals as an adjunct to diet and exercise to reduce LDL-C
Subcutaneous dosage
Children and Adolescents 8 to 17 years weighing 50 kg or more


300 mg subcutaneously every 4 weeks. May adjust dose to 150 mg subcutaneously every 2 weeks if response is inadequate. Monitor LDL-C as clinically appropriate; the LDL-lowering effect may be measured as early as 4 weeks after starting therapy.


Children and Adolescents 8 to 17 years weighing less than 50 kg


150 mg subcutaneously every 4 weeks. May adjust dose to 75 mg subcutaneously every 2 weeks if response is inadequate. Monitor LDL-C as clinically appropriate; the LDL-lowering effect may be measured as early as 4 weeks after starting therapy.


For the treatment of homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia as an adjunct to diet and exercise to reduce LDL-C

Subcutaneous dosage
Adults


150 mg subcutaneously every 2 weeks. Monitor LDL-C as clinically appropriate; the LDL-lowering effect may be measured as early as 4 weeks after starting therapy.


For reduction of cardiovascular mortality and major adverse cardiovascular events, including myocardial infarction prophylaxis, stroke prophylaxis, reduction in unstable angina requiring hospitalization, in adults at increased risk for these events

Subcutaneous dosage
Adults


75 mg subcutaneously every 2 weeks or 300 mg subcutaneously every 4 weeks. Measure LDL-C prior to next dose for persons receiving 300 mg subcutaneously every 4 weeks and otherwise as clinically appropriate. May adjust dose to 150 mg subcutaneously every 2 weeks for inadequate LDL-C response.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

pregnancy


Due to a lack of human data, guidelines recommend avoiding the use of alirocumab during pregnancy. Animal data indicate that alirocumab crosses the placental barrier. Like other IgG antibodies, alirocumab crosses the placental barrier in increasing amounts as pregnancy progresses. In animal reproduction studies, there were no embryo-fetal adverse effects with dose exposures up to 12 times the exposure at the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of 150 mg every 2 weeks. In monkeys, suppression of the humoral immune response occurred in infant monkeys when alirocumab was dosed during organogenesis to birth at dose exposures 13 times the exposure at the MRHD. No additional effects on pregnancy or neonatal/infant development were observed at dose exposures up to 81 times the MRHD. Consider the benefits and risks of alirocumab prior to exposure during pregnancy. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors outcomes in pregnant people exposed to alirocumab; information about the registry can be obtained by calling 1-844-734-6643.


breast-feeding


Use alirocumab with caution during breast-feeding. Some guidelines recommend avoidance during lactation due to a lack of data. Data suggest that IgG antibodies that are present in human milk do not enter the neonatal and infant circulation in substantial amounts. Alirocumab has a large molecular weight, making it unlikely to enter the milk in significant amounts. In addition, its low oral bioavailability limits absorption in the breast-fed child's gut.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Due to a lack of human data, guidelines recommend avoiding the use of alirocumab during pregnancy. Animal data indicate that alirocumab crosses the placental barrier. Like other IgG antibodies, alirocumab crosses the placental barrier in increasing amounts as pregnancy progresses. In animal reproduction studies, there were no embryo-fetal adverse effects with dose exposures up to 12 times the exposure at the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of 150 mg every 2 weeks. In monkeys, suppression of the humoral immune response occurred in infant monkeys when alirocumab was dosed during organogenesis to birth at dose exposures 13 times the exposure at the MRHD. No additional effects on pregnancy or neonatal/infant development were observed at dose exposures up to 81 times the MRHD. Consider the benefits and risks of alirocumab prior to exposure during pregnancy. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors outcomes in pregnant people exposed to alirocumab; information about the registry can be obtained by calling 1-844-734-6643.


Interactions

There are no drug interactions associated with Alirocumab products.

Adverse Reaction
angioedema, pruritus, vasculitis


Serious hypersensitivity reactions, including hypersensitivity vasculitis, angioedema, nummular eczema, and other reactions requiring hospitalization, have occurred with alirocumab use. If a serious hypersensitivity reaction or anaphylaxis develops during therapy, immediately discontinue alirocumab and institute appropriate treatment. Pruritus (1%) was the most common hypersensitivity reaction reported in adults receiving alirocumab.


elevated hepatic enzymes


Elevated hepatic enzymes more than 3 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) occurred in 2% of adult patients receiving alirocumab in clinical trials. Liver related disorders (primarily related to abnormal hepatic enzymes) were reported in 3% of adult patients receiving aliroumab in clinical trials.


ecchymosis, edema, erythema, injection site reaction


An injection site reaction may occur with the use of alirocumab. Injection site reactions, including erythema, pruritus, edema (swelling), and pain/tenderness (4% to 17%, adults; 5%, pediatrics), were reported in patients receiving alirocumab in clinical trials. Treatment discontinuation due to injection site reactions associated with alirocumab use was reported in 0.2% to 0.7% of adult patients and no pediatric patients. Other dermatologic reactions reported with alirocumab use in adults include ecchymosis/contusion (2%).


antibody formation


Antibody formation may occur with alirocumab use. In clinical trials, anti-alirocumab antibody (ADA) formation was reported in approximately 5% of alirocumab-treated adult patients and neutralizing antibodies were reported in 0.5% to 1%. Some patients with persistent or neutralizing antibodies experienced an attenuation of LDL-C lowering effects in alirocumab clinical trials. Adult patients who developed anti-alirocumab antibodies had a higher incidence of injection site reactions compared to patients without anti-alirocumab antibodies (8% vs. 4%, respectively). The incidence of ADA in pediatric patients aged 8 to 17 years with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia treated with alirocumab during clinical trials was 3%; no patients tested positive for neutralizing antibodies. Due to the small number of pediatric patients enrolled in the clinical trial and low occurrence of ADA, the effect of anti-alirocumab antibodies on the pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, safety, and/or effectiveness of alirocumab in pediatric patients is unknown.


influenza


Influenza was reported in 6% of adult patients receiving alirocumab in clinical trials. Influenza-like illness has been reported with postmarketing use of alirocumab.


muscle cramps, myalgia


Myalgia (4% to 6%) and muscle cramps/spasms (3%) were reported in adult patients receiving alirocumab in clinical trials.



diarrhea


Diarrhea was reported in 5% of adult patients receiving alirocumab in clinical trials.


Description

Alirocumab is a proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9) inhibitor indicated as adjunct treatment to diet and exercise for the treatment of hypercholesterolemia, including heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH), and for the treatment of homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HoFH). It is also indicated to reduce the risk of cardiovascular mortality, including the risk of myocardial infarction, stroke and unstable angina requiring hospitalization, in adults at increased risk for these events. During various clinical trials, alirocumab produced negative mean differences from placebo from baseline in LDL-C ranging from approximately 31% to 58%. In the Odyssey Outcomes study, alirocumab therapy was associated with a significant reduction in the primary composite outcome, which was defined as time to first occurrence of non-fatal myocardial infarction, fatal stroke, non-fatal stroke, coronary heart disease death, ischemic stroke, or unstable angina requiring hospitalization (p = 0.0003). Serious hypersensitivity reactions, including hypersensitivity vasculitis, have occurred with use. Alirocumab was FDA-approved in 2015.

Mechanism Of Action


Alirocumab is a human monoclonal IgG1 antibody that binds to and inhibits proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9) binding to low-density lipoprotein receptors (LDLR). PCSK9 binds to LDLR on the hepatocyte surface to promote LDLR degradation within the liver. LDLR is the primary receptor that clears circulating LDL; with alirocumab inhibiting the binding of PCSK9 to LDLR, the number of LDLRs available to clear LDL increases and LDL-C concentrations decrease.


Pharmacokinetics

Alirocumab is administered subcutaneously. Alirocumab is a protein and is expected to degrade to small peptides and amino acids. At low concentrations, elimination is through saturable binding to proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9). At higher concentrations, elimination is mainly through a non-saturable proteolytic pathway. At subcutaneous doses of 75 mg every 2 weeks or 150 mg every 2 weeks, the median apparent half-life of alirocumab at steady state is 17 to 20 days.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: none

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Subcutaneous Route

The absolute bioavailability after subcutaneous administration is approximately 85%. The median Tmax following subcutaneous administration of 75 to 300 mg is 3 to 7 days. In adult subjects, following a 2-fold increase in dose from 75 mg every 2 weeks to 150 mg every 2 weeks, there was a slightly greater than dose proportional increase of 2.1 to 2.7-fold in total alirocumab concentrations. Alirocumab reduces free PCSK9 in a concentration-dependent manner; maximal suppression of PCSK9 occurs within 4 to 8 hours of a single subcutaneous dose of alirocumab 75 or 150 mg and returns to baseline once alirocumab concentrations are undetectable. The pharmacokinetics of alirocumab following injection into different anatomical sites (i.e., abdomen, upper arm, thigh) are similar. Steady state is reached after 2 to 3 doses.

Hepatic Impairment

The pharmacokinetics of alirocumab in patients with mild and moderate hepatic impairment were similar to those with normal hepatic function after subcutaneous administration of a single alirocumab 75 mg dose. Alirocumab has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment.

Renal Impairment

Since monoclonal antibodies are not known to be eliminated via renal pathways, renal function is not expected to impact the pharmacokinetics of alirocumab. Patients with severe renal impairment have not been studied.

Pediatrics

The pharmacokinetics of alirocumab were evaluated in 140 pediatric patients aged 8 to 17 years with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia. Steady-state alirocumab concentrations were reached at or before week 8 (first sampling with repeated doses) with recommended dosing.

Geriatric

In a population pharmacokinetic analysis, age was not found to significantly influence alirocumab pharmacokinetics.

Gender Differences

In a population pharmacokinetic analysis, gender was not found to significantly influence alirocumab pharmacokinetics.

Ethnic Differences

In a population pharmacokinetic analysis, race was not found to significantly influence alirocumab pharmacokinetics.

Obesity

In a population pharmacokinetic analysis, body weight was not found to significantly influence alirocumab pharmacokinetics.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Injectable Administration


Visually inspect for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration. Solution is clear, colorless to pale yellow. Do not use if discolored or if flakes or particulate matter is present.
For patients 8 to 11 years, the injection should only be given by a caregiver. For patients 12 to 17 years, it is recommended that the injection be given by or under the supervision of an adult.
Missed dose:
Within 7 days from missed dose:
Administer the injection and then resume original schedule.
If more than 7 days after missed dose:
For every 2 week dosage regimen, instruct the patient to wait until the next dose on the original schedule.
For every 4 week dosage regimen, instruct patient to administer dose and start a new schedule based on this date.


Subcutaneous Administration

Preparation
If stored in the refrigerator, remove prefilled pen from the refrigerator and allow it to warm to room temperature for 30 to 40 minutes prior to use. Do not warm by using a heat source or leave in direct sunlight; allow it to warm to room temperature on its own. Do not place back in the refrigerator after removal.
Do not shake.
Review the label on the alirocumab injection pen to ensure the correct product and dose.
Storage: Store in refrigerator at 2 to 8 degrees C (36 to 46 degrees F) in the original carton to protect from light. Do not freeze. If needed, may keep at room temperature up to 25 degrees C (77 degrees F) in the original carton for a maximum of 30 days.
 
Subcutaneous injection
Do not administer with other injectables at the same injection site.
To administer the 300 mg dose, give two 150-mg injections consecutively at 2 different injection sites.
Rotate injection site with each injection. Do not inject into areas of the skin that are tender, bruised, hard, or red. Do not inject into areas with visible veins, scars, or stretch marks.
Air bubbles may be present; this is normal. Do not use if the window appears solid yellow. Do not use if the blue cap is missing or not securely attached.
Do not remove the blue cap until you are ready to inject alirocumab and once removed, do not recap the pen.
Once the blue cap is removed, hold the pen with the yellow safety cover pointing down. Without touching the yellow safety cover, ensure the window is visible.
Firmly press the yellow safety cover onto the skin at approximately a 90-degree angle and until the yellow safety cover is no longer visible. The alirocumab injection pen will not work if the yellow safety cover is not fully depressed.
Adults and Children 12 years and older: Pinching of the skin may be required to make the injection site firm.
Children 8 to 11 years: Pinch the skin before and during the injection.
Push and immediately release the green (75 mg prefilled pen) or gray (150 mg prefilled pen) button with the thumb. You will hear a click and see that the window starts to turn yellow, indicating that the injection has started.
Continue to hold the alirocumab injection pen against the skin after releasing the button. The injection may take up to 20 seconds.
The window of the pen will turn completely yellow when the injection is complete. A second click may be heard at the end of the injection. Do not remove the pen until the entire window is yellow.
If the window does not turn completely yellow, call 1-844-772-5836 for assistance. Do not administer a second dose.
Pull the alirocumab injection pen away from the skin; do not rub the skin after the injection.
The alirocumab injection pen is provided as a single use system; discard after use.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

150 mg subcutaneously every 2 weeks.

Geriatric

150 mg subcutaneously every 2 weeks.

Adolescents

150 mg subcutaneously every 2 weeks.

Children

 
8 to 12 years weighing 50 kg or more: 150 mg subcutaneously every 2 weeks.
 
8 to 12 years weighing less than 50 kg: 75 mg subcutaneously every 2 weeks.
 
1 to 7 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.
 

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

Praluent Prefilled Pen 150mg/1ml Solution for Injection

Praluent Prefilled Pen 150mg/1mL Solution for Injection

Praluent Prefilled Pen 75mg/1ml Solution for Injection

Praluent Prefilled Pen 75mg/1mL Solution for Injection

Praluent Prefilled Pen 75mg/1mL Solution for Injection

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

No dosage adjustment is needed for mild or moderate hepatic impairment. Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in severe hepatic impairment are not available.

Renal Impairment

No dosage adjustment is needed for mild or moderate renal impairment. Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in severe renal impairment are not available.

© 2026 Elsevier