=== amLODIPine — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 27)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Amlodipine is an oral dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 10 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): gingival hyperplasia, pancreatitis, weight gain, weight loss, elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatitis, jaundice, asthenia, hypoesthesia, paresthesias, peripheral neuropathy, tremor, vertigo, abnormal dreams, anxiety, depression, drowsiness, fatigue, insomnia, malaise, arthralgia, back pain, chills, hot flashes, muscle cramps, myalgia, gynecomastia, impotence (erectile dysfunction), libido decrease, conjunctivitis

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Worsening angina and acute myocardial infarction can develop after starting or increasing the dose of amlodipine, particularly in individuals with severe obstructive coronary artery...

AMLODIPINE

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Katerzia, Norliqva, Norvasc, Sdamlo

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of hypertension

Oral dosage
Adults 65 years and older


2.5 mg PO once daily, initially. May increase dose after 7 to 14 days if further control is needed. Max: 10 mg/day.


Adults 18 to 64 years


5 mg PO once daily, initially. May increase dose after 7 to 14 days if further control is needed. Dose range: 2.5 to 10 mg PO once daily. Max: 10 mg/day.


Children and Adolescents 6 to 17 years


2.5 to 5 mg PO once daily, initially. Adjust dose based on blood pressure, generally no more frequently than every 7 to 14 days. Max: 10 mg/day. Alternately, 0.1 mg/kg/dose (range: 0.05 to 0.3 mg/kg/dose; Max: 5 mg/dose) PO once daily, initially. Max: 0.6 mg/kg/day or 10 mg/day. Younger children require higher doses per kg of body weight relative to older children and may benefit from twice daily dosing in some cases.


Children 1 to 5 years†


0.1 mg/kg/dose (range: 0.05 to 0.3 mg/kg/dose) PO once daily, initially. Adjust dose based on blood pressure, generally no more frequently than every 7 to 14 days. Max: 0.6 mg/kg/day or 5 mg/day. Younger children require higher doses per kg of body weight relative to older children and may benefit from twice daily dosing in some cases.


For the treatment of coronary artery disease (CAD), including chronic stable angina, variant angina (Prinzmetal angina), and angiographically documented CAD without heart failure or ejection fraction less than 40%

Oral dosage
Adults


5 to 10 mg PO once daily. Usual dose: 10 mg PO once daily.


For the treatment of pulmonary hypertension†

Oral dosage
Adults


5 mg PO once daily, initially. Increase dose to 15 to 30 mg/day, given as a single dose or divided twice daily, as tolerated.


Infants†, Children†, and Adolescents†


0.1 to 0.3 mg/kg/dose PO once daily, initially. Increase dose as tolerated. Usual dose: 2.5 to 7.5 mg/day. Max: 10 mg/day.


For the treatment of Raynaud phenomenon†

Oral dosage
Adults


5 to 20 mg PO once daily.


For altitude sickness prophylaxis†, including prevention of high altitude pulmonary edema†

Oral dosage
Children and Adolescents 6 to 17 years


2.5 to 5 mg PO once daily starting the day before ascent and continuing for 4 to 7 days after reaching the target altitude or until descent is initiated.


Children 1 to 5 years


0.1 to 0.6 mg/kg/dose (Max: 5 mg/dose) PO once daily starting the day before ascent and continuing for 4 to 7 days after reaching the target altitude or until descent is initiated.


For the treatment of high altitude pulmonary edema† associated with altitude sickness

Oral dosage
Children and Adolescents 6 to 17 years


2.5 to 5 mg PO once daily until symptoms resolve. May consider further use if resuming ascent.


Children 1 to 5 years


0.1 to 0.6 mg/kg/dose (Max: 5 mg/dose) PO once daily until symptoms resolve. May consider further use if resuming ascent.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

General Information

Worsening angina and acute myocardial infarction can develop after starting or increasing the dose of amlodipine, particularly in individuals with severe obstructive coronary artery disease.

severe aortic stenosis


Symptomatic hypotension is possible with amlodipine, particularly in individuals with severe aortic stenosis.


hepatic failure


A lower initial amlodipine dose may be necessary in individuals with hepatic failure; titrate the amlodipine dose slowly in individuals with severe hepatic failure. Amlodipine is extensively metabolized by the liver and the elimination half-life is prolonged in individuals with impaired hepatic function.


geriatric


A lower initial amlodipine dose may be required in geriatric adults. In general, use cautious dose selection for amlodipine in older adults, usually starting at the low end of the dosing range, reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic, renal, or cardiac function, and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy. Older adults have decreased clearance of amlodipine with a resulting increase in overall amlodipine exposure.


pregnancy


Data are insufficient to advise a drug-associated risk of amlodipine use during pregnancy. Hypertension during pregnancy increases the risk of preeclampsia, gestational diabetes, premature delivery, and delivery complications. Fetal risks of maternal hypertension include intrauterine growth restriction and intrauterine death. Data for animal reproductive studies indicate no evidence of adverse developmental effects when pregnant rats and rabbits were treated orally with amlodipine during organogenesis at doses approximately 10- and 20-times the maximum recommended human dose, respectively. Litter size for rats was decreased by about 50% and the number of intrauterine deaths was increased approximately 5-fold. Amlodipine has been shown to prolong the gestation period and the duration of labor in rats at this dose.


breast-feeding


Use amlodipine with caution during breast-feeding. Amlodipine is present in human breast milk in small amounts. No adverse effects of amlodipine on breastfed children have been observed. There is no information on the effect of amlodipine on milk production. In a study of 31 lactating individuals with pregnancy-induced hypertension, the median relative infant dose (RID) of amlodipine in human milk was 4.2% (interquartile range, 3.1% to 7.3%) and the maximum RID was 15.2%. The breastfed infants did not experience cardiovascular adverse effects within 3 weeks postpartum, but there was no information available on cardiovascular measurement methods or the extent of breast-feeding. In another study of 8 lactating individuals, the average RID for amlodipine was 3.4% (range, 1.56% to 4.32%).


Pregnancy And Lactation


Data are insufficient to advise a drug-associated risk of amlodipine use during pregnancy. Hypertension during pregnancy increases the risk of preeclampsia, gestational diabetes, premature delivery, and delivery complications. Fetal risks of maternal hypertension include intrauterine growth restriction and intrauterine death. Data for animal reproductive studies indicate no evidence of adverse developmental effects when pregnant rats and rabbits were treated orally with amlodipine during organogenesis at doses approximately 10- and 20-times the maximum recommended human dose, respectively. Litter size for rats was decreased by about 50% and the number of intrauterine deaths was increased approximately 5-fold. Amlodipine has been shown to prolong the gestation period and the duration of labor in rats at this dose.


Interactions

Acebutolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of dihydrocodeine with amlodipine may increase dihydrocodeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased dihydromorphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of dihydrocodeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of amlodipine could decrease dihydrocodeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to dihydrocodeine. If amlodipine is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Amlodipine is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4, an isoenzyme partially responsible for the metabolism of dihydrocodeine.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in codeine-related adverse reactions including sedation and respiratory depression if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary; adjust the dose of codeine if necessary. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6 and increased morphine concentrations.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Acetaminophen; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like amlodipine can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If amlodipine is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Acetaminophen; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. If amlodipine is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with a weak inhibitor like amlodipine can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If amlodipine is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Acetaminophen; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Adagrasib: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with adagrasib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
Adenosine: (Moderate) Use adenosine with caution in the presence of calcium-channel blockers due to the potential for additive or synergistic depressant effects on the sinoatrial and atrioventricular nodes.
Alemtuzumab: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of alfentanil with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. If amlodipine is discontinued, consider increasing the alfentanil dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Alfentanil is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with weak CYP3A4 inhibitors like amlodipine can increase alfentanil exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of alfentanil. If amlodipine is discontinued, alfentanil plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to alfentanil.
ALPRAZolam: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and amlodipine due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with amlodipine, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A4 inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Alprostadil: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, like calcium channel blockers, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Amifostine: (Major) Patients receiving calcium-channel blockers should be closely monitored during amifostine infusions due to additive effects. Patients receiving amifostine at doses recommended for chemotherapy should have antihypertensive therapy interrupted 24 hours preceding administration of amifostine. If the antihypertensive cannot be stopped for 24 hours before chemotherapy doses of amifostine, patients should not receive amifostine.
Aminolevulinic Acid: (Minor) Preclinical data suggest that calcium-channel blockers could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Amobarbital: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin and amlodipine, particularly in geriatric patients, due to an increased risk of hypotension and acute kidney injury. If the use of a macrolide antibiotic is necessary in a patient receiving amlodipine therapy, azithromycin is the preferred agent. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. A retrospective, case crossover study, found the risk of hospitalization due to hypotension or shock to be significantly increased in geriatric patients exposed to clarithromycin during concurrent calcium-channel blocker therapy (OR 3.7, 95% CI 2.3-6.1). Concurrent use of azithromycin was not associated with an increased risk of hypotension (OR 1.5, 95% CI 0.8-2.8).
Amphetamine: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine Salts: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Apalutamide: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with apalutamide is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Apomorphine: (Moderate) Use of calcium-channel blockers and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Apraclonidine: (Minor) Apraclonidine had minimal effects on heart rate and blood pressure during clinical studies in patients with glaucoma. However, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Use caution during concurrent use, especially in patients with severe, uncontrolled cardiovascular disease, including hypertension.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Moderate) Use caution if amlodipine and a multi-day regimen of oral aprepitant are used concurrently; monitor for an increase in amlodipine-related adverse effects for several days after administration. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate. Aprepitant, when administered as a 3-day oral regimen (125 mg/80 mg/80 mg), is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and inducer and may increase plasma concentrations of amlodipine. For example, a 5-day oral aprepitant regimen increased the AUC of another CYP3A4 substrate, midazolam (single dose), by 2.3-fold on day 1 and by 3.3-fold on day 5. After a 3-day oral aprepitant regimen, the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1, 4, 8, and 15) increased by 25% on day 4, and then decreased by 19% and 4% on days 8 and 15, respectively. As a single 125 mg or 40 mg oral dose, the inhibitory effect of aprepitant on CYP3A4 is weak, with the AUC of midazolam increased by 1.5-fold and 1.2-fold, respectively. After administration, fosaprepitant is rapidly converted to aprepitant and shares many of the same drug interactions. However, as a single 150 mg intravenous dose, fosaprepitant only weakly inhibits CYP3A4 for a duration of 2 days; there is no evidence of CYP3A4 induction. Fosaprepitant 150 mg IV as a single dose increased the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1 and 4) by approximately 1.8-fold on day 1; there was no effect on day 4. Less than a 2-fold increase in the midazolam AUC is not considered clinically important.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions and hypotension during concomitant use of amlodipine. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus amlodipine may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Additionally, aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents such as amlodipine. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Armodafinil: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as armodafinil are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including calcium-channel blockers, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
Asenapine: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in codeine-related adverse reactions including sedation and respiratory depression if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary; adjust the dose of codeine if necessary. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6 and increased morphine concentrations.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. If amlodipine is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with a weak inhibitor like amlodipine can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If amlodipine is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Atazanavir: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with protease inhibitors is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with cobicistat is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor and amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent. (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with protease inhibitors is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Atenolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Atracurium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium-channel blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Avacopan: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with avacopan is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Avanafil: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure closely during concomitant use of avanafil and amlodipine as coadministration may increase the risk of additive hypotension. Avanafil is a substrate of CYP3A and amlodipine is a CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with amlodipine increased the AUC of avanafil by approximately 70% and the half-life was prolonged to approximately 10 hours. A mean maximum decrease in supine systolic blood pressure of 1.2 mmHg (compared to placebo), accompanied by a mean maximum increase in pulse rate of 1 beat per minute was observed.
Baclofen: (Moderate) Baclofen has been associated with hypotension. Concurrent use with baclofen and antihypertensive agents may result in additive hypotension. Dosage adjustments of the antihypertensive medication may be required.
Barbiturates: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Concurrent use of benzhydrocodone with amlodipine may increase the risk of increased opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Consider a dose reduction of benzhydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patients for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. Discontinuation of amlodipine in a patient taking benzhydrocodone may decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to opioid agonists. If amlodipine is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Benzhydrocodone is a prodrug for hydrocodone. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP3A4. Amlodipine is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4.
Benzphetamine: (Minor) Benzphetamine might increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Berotralstat: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with berotralstat is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and berotralstat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Beta-blockers: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Betaxolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Bexarotene: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as bexarotene, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with lenacapavir is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Bisoprolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Bortezomib: (Moderate) Patients on antihypertensive agents receiving bortezomib treatment may require close monitoring of their blood pressure and dosage adjustment of their medication. During clinical trials of bortezomib, hypotension was reported in roughly 12 percent of patients.
Bosentan: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with bosentan is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and bosentan is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including calcium-channel blockers, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in codeine-related adverse reactions including sedation and respiratory depression if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary; adjust the dose of codeine if necessary. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6 and increased morphine concentrations.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in codeine-related adverse reactions including sedation and respiratory depression if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary; adjust the dose of codeine if necessary. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6 and increased morphine concentrations.
Cabergoline: (Moderate) Cabergoline should be used cautiously with antihypertensive agents, including amlodipine. Cabergoline has been associated with hypotension. Initial doses higher than 1 mg may produce orthostatic hypotension. It may be advisable to monitor blood pressure.
Calcium Acetate: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Calcium Carbonate: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Calcium Carbonate; Famotidine; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Calcium Carbonate; Simethicone: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Calcium Chloride: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Calcium Gluconate: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Calcium: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Calcium; Vitamin D: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Calcium; Vitamin D: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
carBAMazepine: (Moderate) Monitor carbamazepine concentrations and blood pressure closely during coadministration of amlodipine; carbamazepine dose adjustments may be needed. Concomitant use may increase carbamazepine concentrations. Carbamazepine is a CYP3A substrate and strong inducer and amlodipine is CYP3A substrate and inhibitor. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Carbidopa; Levodopa: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Carbidopa; Levodopa; Entacapone: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Carteolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Celecoxib: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of amlodipine, a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist. (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Cenobamate: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with cenobamate is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and cenobamate is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Ceritinib: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ceritinib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Ceritinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor and amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Chloramphenicol: (Moderate) Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate. Theoretically, CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as chloramphenicol, may increase the plasma concentration of amlodipine via CYP3A4 inhibition; this effect might lead to hypotension in some individuals. Caution should be used when chloramphenicol is coadministered with amlodipine; therapeutic response should be monitored.
Chloroprocaine: (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in codeine-related adverse reactions including sedation and respiratory depression if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary; adjust the dose of codeine if necessary. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6 and increased morphine concentrations.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like amlodipine can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If amlodipine is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Chromium: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Ciprofloxacin: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ciprofloxacin is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and ciprofloxacin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Cisapride: (Moderate) Use caution when administering amlodipine with cisapride. Taking these drugs together may increase cisapride plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in adverse events. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; cisapride is a substrate of CYP3A4 with a narrow therapeutic index.
Cisatracurium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium-channel blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin and amlodipine, particularly in geriatric patients, due to an increased risk of hypotension and acute kidney injury. If the use of a macrolide antibiotic is necessary in a patient receiving amlodipine therapy, azithromycin is the preferred agent. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. A retrospective, case crossover study, found the risk of hospitalization due to hypotension or shock to be significantly increased in geriatric patients exposed to clarithromycin during concurrent calcium-channel blocker therapy (OR 3.7, 95% CI 2.3-6.1). Concurrent use of azithromycin was not associated with an increased risk of hypotension (OR 1.5, 95% CI 0.8-2.8).
cloBAZam: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as clobazam, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Clopidogrel: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced therapeutic response to clopidogrel when it is coadministered with amlodipine. Although clopidogrel is primarily converted to its active metabolite via CYP2C19, it has been suggested that calcium channel blocker (CCB)-induced inhibition of CYP3A4 reduces its conversion to the active metabolite, thereby reducing its antiplatelet effect. Because amlodipine has represented the largest subgroup of CCB studied, it is unknown whether this is a class effect. It has been theorized that CCBs that inhibit P-glycoprotein (P-gp) decrease the intestinal efflux of clopidogrel, thereby increasing its plasma concentrations and counteracting the effect of CCB-induced CYP3A4 inhibition. Amlodipine is not a P-gp inhibitor.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Clozapine used concomitantly with the antihypertensive agents can increase the risk and severity of hypotension by potentiating the effect of the antihypertensive drug.
Cobicistat: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with cobicistat is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor and amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
Cocaine: (Major) Use of cocaine with antihypertensive agents may increase the antihypertensive effects of the antihypertensive medications or may potentiate cocaine-induced sympathetic stimulation.
Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in codeine-related adverse reactions including sedation and respiratory depression if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary; adjust the dose of codeine if necessary. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6 and increased morphine concentrations.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in codeine-related adverse reactions including sedation and respiratory depression if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary; adjust the dose of codeine if necessary. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6 and increased morphine concentrations.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in codeine-related adverse reactions including sedation and respiratory depression if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary; adjust the dose of codeine if necessary. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6 and increased morphine concentrations.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in codeine-related adverse reactions including sedation and respiratory depression if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary; adjust the dose of codeine if necessary. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6 and increased morphine concentrations. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in codeine-related adverse reactions including sedation and respiratory depression if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary; adjust the dose of codeine if necessary. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6 and increased morphine concentrations. (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in codeine-related adverse reactions including sedation and respiratory depression if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary; adjust the dose of codeine if necessary. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6 and increased morphine concentrations.
Co-Enzyme Q10, Ubiquinone: (Moderate) Co-enzyme Q10, ubiquinone (CoQ10) may lower blood pressure. CoQ10 use in combination with antihypertensive agents may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients who choose to take CoQ10 concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring. Patients should be advised to inform their prescriber of their use of CoQ10.
Conivaptan: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with conivaptan is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; conivaptan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of amlodipine and oral conivaptan doubled amlodipine's overall exposure in a drug interaction study.
Crizotinib: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with crizotinib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Crizotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor and amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Caution should be used when cyclosporine is coadministered with amlodipine; therapeutic response should be monitored, including cyclosporine levels as necessary. Amlodipine may increase cyclosporine concentrations. In one study, whole blood cyclosporine trough concentrations increased from 140.2 +/- 18.2 to 200 +/- 21.9 mcg/L after amlodipine addition. In another study, the systemic exposure (AUC) of cyclosporine increased following the addition of amlodipine, and was decreased in the absence of the drug. The postulated mechanism is the inhibitory effect of amlodipine on the P-glycoprotein-mediated efflux of cyclosporine from intestinal epithelial cells. In addition, amlodipine is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4; cyclosporine is a substrate with a narrow therapeutic index. Also, amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and theoretically, cyclosporine, may increase the plasma concentration of amlodipine via CYP3A4 inhibition; this effect might lead to hypotension in some individuals.
Dabrafenib: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as dabrafenib, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Dantrolene: (Moderate) Concurrent use with skeletal muscle relaxants and antihypertensive agents may result in additive hypotension. Dosage adjustments of the antihypertensive medication may be required.
Darunavir: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with protease inhibitors is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with cobicistat is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor and amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent. (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with protease inhibitors is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with cobicistat is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor and amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent. (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with protease inhibitors is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Deferasirox: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as deferasirox, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Desloratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of dexmedetomidine and calcium-channel blockers could lead to additive hypotension and bradycardia; use together with caution. Dexmedetomidine can produce bradycardia or AV block and should be used cautiously in patients who are receiving antihypertensive drugs that may lower the heart rate such as calcium-channel blockers.
Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents, including calcium-channel blockers.
Dextroamphetamine: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased quinidine adverse reactions if coadministered with amlodipine. Taking these drugs together may increase quinidine plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in adverse events. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; quinidine is a substrate of CYP3A4 with a narrow therapeutic index. In addition, quinidine can decrease blood pressure and should be used cautiously in patients receiving antihypertensive agents due to the potential for additive hypotension.
Diclofenac: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Diethylpropion: (Major) Diethylpropion has vasopressor effects and may limit the benefit of calcium-channel blockers. Although leading drug interaction texts differ in the potential for an interaction between diethylpropion and this group of antihypertensive agents, these effects are likely to be clinically significant and have been described in hypertensive patients on these medications.
Diflunisal: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
dilTIAZem: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with diltiazem is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and diltiazem is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with diltiazem in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Dofetilide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A4 substrate; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of dronabinol with amlodipine is necessary, and monitor for an increase in dronabinol-related adverse reactions (e.g., feeling high, dizziness, confusion, somnolence). Dronabinol is a CYP2C9 and 3A4 substrate; amlodipine is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4. Concomitant use may result in elevated plasma concentrations of dronabinol.
Dronedarone: (Moderate) Monitor for evidence of hypotension and edema if amlodipine is coadministered with dronedarone; an amlodipine dose adjustment may be necessary due to increased amlodipine exposure. Dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension and syncope have been reported during duloxetine administration. The concurrent administration of antihypertensive agents and duloxetine may increase the risk of hypotension. Monitor blood pressure if the combination is necessary.
Dutasteride; Tamsulosin: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of tamsulosin with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. In addition, diltiazem, nicardipine, and verapamil may increase tamsulosin plasma concentrations via CYP3A4 inhibition. This interaction can be therapeutically advantageous, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
Duvelisib: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with duvelisib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and duvelisib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Efavirenz: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure if amlodipine and efavirenz are used concomitantly. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate; efavirenz induces CYP3A4. In addition, monitor for an increase in efavirenz-related adverse reactions if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary. Efavirenz is a CYP3A4 substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; concomitant use may increase plasma concentrations of efavirenz.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure if amlodipine and efavirenz are used concomitantly. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate; efavirenz induces CYP3A4. In addition, monitor for an increase in efavirenz-related adverse reactions if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary. Efavirenz is a CYP3A4 substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; concomitant use may increase plasma concentrations of efavirenz.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure if amlodipine and efavirenz are used concomitantly. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate; efavirenz induces CYP3A4. In addition, monitor for an increase in efavirenz-related adverse reactions if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary. Efavirenz is a CYP3A4 substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; concomitant use may increase plasma concentrations of efavirenz.
Elagolix: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with elagolix is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and elagolix is a weak to moderate CYP3A4 inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with elagolix is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and elagolix is a weak to moderate CYP3A4 inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Elbasvir; Grazoprevir: (Moderate) Administering elbasvir; grazoprevir with amlodipine may cause the plasma concentrations of all three drugs to increase; thereby increasing the potential for adverse effects (i.e., elevated ALT concentrations and hepatotoxicity). Amlodipine is a substrate and weak inhibitor of CYP3A. Both elbasvir and grazoprevir are metabolized by CYP3A, and grazoprevir is also a weak CYP3A inhibitor. If these drugs are used together, closely monitor for signs of hepatotoxicity.
Eliglustat: (Major) In poor CYP2D6 metabolizers (PMs), coadministration of amlodipine and eliglustat is not recommended. In extensive CYP2D6 metabolizers (EM) with mild hepatic impairment, coadministration of these agents requires dosage reduction of eliglustat to 84 mg PO once daily. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor; eliglustat is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate. Because CYP3A plays a significant role in the metabolism of eliglustat in CYP2D6 PMs, coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors may increase eliglustat exposure and the risk of serious adverse events (e.g., QT prolongation and cardiac arrhythmias) in these patients.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with cobicistat is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor and amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with cobicistat is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor and amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
Empagliflozin: (Moderate) Administer antidiabetic agents with caution in patients receiving calcium-channel blockers. These drugs may cause hyperglycemia leading to a temporary loss of glycemic control in patients receiving antidiabetic agents. Close observation and monitoring of blood glucose is necessary to maintain adequate glycemic control.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin: (Moderate) Administer antidiabetic agents with caution in patients receiving calcium-channel blockers. These drugs may cause hyperglycemia leading to a temporary loss of glycemic control in patients receiving antidiabetic agents. Close observation and monitoring of blood glucose is necessary to maintain adequate glycemic control.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Administer antidiabetic agents with caution in patients receiving calcium-channel blockers. These drugs may cause hyperglycemia leading to a temporary loss of glycemic control in patients receiving antidiabetic agents. Close observation and monitoring of blood glucose is necessary to maintain adequate glycemic control.
Empagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Administer antidiabetic agents with caution in patients receiving calcium-channel blockers. These drugs may cause hyperglycemia leading to a temporary loss of glycemic control in patients receiving antidiabetic agents. Close observation and monitoring of blood glucose is necessary to maintain adequate glycemic control.
Encorafenib: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with encorafenib is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Ensitrelvir: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ensitrelvir is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
Enzalutamide: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with enzalutamide is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
ePHEDrine: (Major) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics, such as ephedrine, may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Blood pressure and heart rates should be monitored closely to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
ePHEDrine; guaiFENesin: (Major) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics, such as ephedrine, may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Blood pressure and heart rates should be monitored closely to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including calcium-channel blockers, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
epiRUBicin: (Moderate) Close cardiac monitoring is recommended throughout therapy in patients receiving concomitant therapy with epirubicin and calcium-channel blockers. Individuals receiving these medications together are at increased risk of developing heart failure.
Eplerenone: (Moderate) Amlodipine can have additive hypotensive effects with other antihypertensive agents. This additive effect can be desirable, but the patient should be monitored carefully and the dosage should be adjusted based on clinical response.
Epoprostenol: (Moderate) Calcium-channel blockers can have additive hypotensive effects with other antihypertensive agents. This additive effect can be desirable, but the patient should be monitored carefully and the dosage should be adjusted based on clinical response.
Erythromycin: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with erythromycin is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and erythromycin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Eslicarbazepine: (Minor) In vivo studies suggest eslicarbazepine is an inducer of CYP3A4. Coadministration of CYP3A4 substrates, such as amlodipine, may result in decreased serum concentrations of the substrates. Monitor for potential reduced cholesterol-lowering and hypotensive efficacy when these drugs are coadministered with eslicarbazepine. Appropriate dose adjustments may be necessary.
Esmolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients; patients who are receiving antihypertensive agents concurrently with hormonal contraceptives should be monitored for antihypertensive effectiveness.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Ethosuximide: (Moderate) Monitor for increased ethosuximide adverse reactions if coadministered with amlodipine. Taking these drugs together may increase ethosuximide plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in adverse events. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; ethosuximide is a substrate of CYP3A4 with a narrow therapeutic index.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Etodolac: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Etomidate: (Major) The depression of cardiac contractility, conductivity, and automaticity as well as the vascular dilation associated with general anesthetics may be potentiated by calcium-channel blockers. Alternatively, general anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. When used concomitantly, anesthetics and calcium-channel blockers should be titrated carefully to avoid excessive cardiovascular depression.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Etravirine: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as etravirine, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Ezetimibe; Simvastatin: (Major) Do not exceed a simvastatin dose of 20 mg/day in patients taking amlodipine due to increased risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis. For patients chronically receiving simvastatin 80 mg/day who need to be started on amlodipine, consider switching to an alternative statin with less potential for interaction. Carefully weigh the benefits of combined use of amlodipine and simvastatin against the potential risks. Amlodipine increases the simvastatin exposure by approximately 1.5-fold.
Fedratinib: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with fedratinib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Fedratinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor and amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Fenoprofen: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of fentanyl with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. If amlodipine is discontinued, consider increasing the fentanyl dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Fentanyl is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like amlodipine can increase fentanyl exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of fentanyl. If amlodipine is discontinued, fentanyl plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to fentanyl.
Fexinidazole: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with fexinidazole is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Fexofenadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Finerenone: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium during initiation or dose adjustment of either finerenone or amlodipine; a finerenone dosage reduction may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase finerenone exposure and the risk of hyperkalemia. Finerenone is a CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased overall exposure to finerenone by 21%.
Fish Oil, Omega-3 Fatty Acids (Dietary Supplements): (Moderate) High doses of fish oil supplements may produce a blood pressure lowering effect. It is possible that additive reductions in blood pressure may be seen when fish oils are used in a patient already taking antihypertensive agents.
Fluconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with fluconazole is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and fluconazole is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Flurbiprofen: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Flutamide: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as flutamide, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
fluvoxaMINE: (Moderate) A dose reduction of amlodipine may be required during coadministration of fluvoxamine. Administering amlodipine with CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as fluvoxamine, may increase plasma concentrations of amlodipine, which might lead to hypotension and peripheral edema in some individuals.
Fosamprenavir: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with protease inhibitors is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Foscarbidopa; Foslevodopa: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Fosphenytoin: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with hydantoins is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and hydantoins are strong CYP3A4 inducers. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
General anesthetics: (Major) The depression of cardiac contractility, conductivity, and automaticity as well as the vascular dilation associated with general anesthetics may be potentiated by calcium-channel blockers. Alternatively, general anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. When used concomitantly, anesthetics and calcium-channel blockers should be titrated carefully to avoid excessive cardiovascular depression.
Ginkgo, Ginkgo biloba: (Moderate) Ginkgo biloba appears to inhibit the metabolism of calcium-channel blockers, perhaps by inhibiting the CYP3A4 isoenzyme. A non-controlled pharmacokinetic study in healthy volunteers found that the concurrent administration of ginkgo with nifedipine resulted in a 53% increase in nifedipine peak concentrations. More study is needed regarding ginkgo's effects on CYP3A4 and whether clinically significant drug interactions result.
Ginseng, Panax ginseng: (Moderate) Ginseng appears to inhibit the metabolism of calcium-channel blockers, perhaps by inhibiting the CYP3A4 isoenzyme. A non-controlled pharmacokinetic study in healthy volunteers found that the concurrent administration of ginseng with nifedipine resulted in a 30% increase in nifedipine peak concentrations. More study is needed regarding ginseng's effects on CYP3A4 and whether clinically significant drug interactions result.
Grapefruit juice: (Major) Advise patients to avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice during amlodipine treatment due to the risk for increased amlodipine exposure and adverse reactions. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and grapefruit juice is a CYP3A inhibitor.
guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Haloperidol: (Moderate) In general, antipsychotics like haloperidol should be used cautiously with antihypertensive agents due to the possibility of additive hypotension.
Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the calcium-channel blockers. Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like amlodipine can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If amlodipine is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Hydantoins: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with hydantoins is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and hydantoins are strong CYP3A4 inducers. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
hydrALAZINE; Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like amlodipine can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If amlodipine is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like amlodipine can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If amlodipine is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone. (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Ibuprofen: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Idelalisib: (Moderate) Coadministration of idelalisib with amlodipine may increase the systemic exposure of amlodipine resulting in amlodipine-related adverse events. Consider an amlodipine dose reduction if these agents are administered together and monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema.
Iloperidone: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, iloperidone can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use with antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of iloperidone and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Iloprost: (Moderate) Calcium-channel blockers can have additive hypotensive effects with other antihypertensive agents. This additive effect can be desirable, but the patient should be monitored carefully and the dosage should be adjusted based on clinical response.
Imatinib: (Moderate) Administering amlodipine with CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as imatinib, may increase the plasma concentration of amlodipine; this effect might lead to hypotension in some individuals. Caution should be used when imatinib is coadministered with amlodipine; therapeutic response should be monitored.
Indomethacin: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Intravenous Lipid Emulsions: (Moderate) High doses of fish oil supplements may produce a blood pressure lowering effect. It is possible that additive reductions in blood pressure may be seen when fish oils are used in a patient already taking antihypertensive agents.
Isavuconazonium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of isavuconazonium with amlodipine may result in increased serum concentrations of amlodipine. Amlodipine is a substrate of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; isavuconazole, the active moiety of isavuconazonium, is a moderate inhibitor of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together.
Isocarboxazid: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may be seen when monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) are combined with antihypertensives. Careful monitoring of blood pressure is suggested during concurrent therapy of MAOIs with calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be instructed to rise slowly from a sitting position, and to report syncope or changes in blood pressure or heart rate to their health care provider.
Isoflurane: (Major) The depression of cardiac contractility, conductivity, and automaticity as well as the vascular dilation associated with general anesthetics may be potentiated by calcium-channel blockers. Alternatively, general anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. When used concomitantly, anesthetics and calcium-channel blockers should be titrated carefully to avoid excessive cardiovascular depression.
Isoproterenol: (Moderate) The pharmacologic effects of isoproterenol may cause an increase in blood pressure. If isoproterenol is used concomitantly with antihypertensives, the blood pressure should be monitored as the administration of isoproterenol can compromise the effectiveness of antihypertensive agents.
Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
Isosorbide Mononitrate: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
Itraconazole: (Moderate) Calcium-channel blockers can have a negative inotropic effect that may be additive to those of itraconazole. In addition, itraconazole may increase amlodipine serum concentrations via inhibition of CYP3A4 with the potential for amlodipine toxicity. Edema has been reported in patients receiving concomitantly itraconazole and amlodipine, therefore, caution is recommended when administering these medications in combination. A dosage reduction of the calcium-channel blocker may be appropriate.
Ixabepilone: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Ketamine: (Major) The depression of cardiac contractility, conductivity, and automaticity as well as the vascular dilation associated with general anesthetics may be potentiated by calcium-channel blockers. Alternatively, general anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. When used concomitantly, anesthetics and calcium-channel blockers should be titrated carefully to avoid excessive cardiovascular depression.
Ketoconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ketoconazole is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
Ketoprofen: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Ketorolac: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Labetalol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Lacosamide: (Moderate) Use lacosamide with caution in patients taking concomitant medications that affect cardiac conduction, such as calcium-channel blockers, because of the risk of AV block, bradycardia, or ventricular tachyarrhythmia. If use together is necessary, obtain an ECG prior to lacosamide initiation and after treatment has been titrated to steady-state. In addition, monitor patients receiving lacosamide via the intravenous route closely.
Landiolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Lanreotide: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of bradycardia-inducing drugs (e.g., calcium-channel blockers) may have an additive effect on the reduction of heart rate associated with lanreotide. Adjust the calcium-channel blocker dose if necessary.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin and amlodipine, particularly in geriatric patients, due to an increased risk of hypotension and acute kidney injury. If the use of a macrolide antibiotic is necessary in a patient receiving amlodipine therapy, azithromycin is the preferred agent. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. A retrospective, case crossover study, found the risk of hospitalization due to hypotension or shock to be significantly increased in geriatric patients exposed to clarithromycin during concurrent calcium-channel blocker therapy (OR 3.7, 95% CI 2.3-6.1). Concurrent use of azithromycin was not associated with an increased risk of hypotension (OR 1.5, 95% CI 0.8-2.8).
Lasmiditan: (Moderate) Monitor heart rate if lasmiditan is coadministered with calcium-channel blockers as concurrent use may increase the risk for bradycardia. Lasmiditan has been associated with lowering of heart rate. In a drug interaction study, addition of a single 200 mg dose of lasmiditan to another heart rate lowering drug decreased heart rate by an additional 5 beats per minute.
Lefamulin: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with oral lefamulin is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and oral lefamulin is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; an interaction is not expected with intravenous lefamulin. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with lenacapavir is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Letermovir: (Moderate) Amlodipine dose reductions may be required during concurrent administration with letermovir; monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema to determine the need for dose adjustment. The magnitude of this interaction may be increased in patients who are also receiving cyclosporine. Administering these drugs together may increase amlodipine concentration and risk for adverse events. Amlodipine is a substrate of CYP3A4. Letermovir is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; however, when given with cyclosporine, the combined effect on CYP3A4 substrates may be similar to a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concurrent administration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased amlodipine exposure by 60%; however, another moderate inhibitor did not significantly change amlodipine exposure. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase amlodipine exposure to a greater extent.
Levobunolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Levodopa: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Levoketoconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ketoconazole is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Lidocaine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of systemic lidocaine and amlodipine may increase lidocaine plasma concentrations by decreasing lidocaine clearance and therefore prolonging the elimination half-life. Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if used together. Lidocaine is a CYP3A4 and CYP1A2 substrate; amlodipine inhibits CYP3A4.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including calcium-channel blockers, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine. (Moderate) Concomitant use of systemic lidocaine and amlodipine may increase lidocaine plasma concentrations by decreasing lidocaine clearance and therefore prolonging the elimination half-life. Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if used together. Lidocaine is a CYP3A4 and CYP1A2 substrate; amlodipine inhibits CYP3A4.
Lidocaine; Prilocaine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of systemic lidocaine and amlodipine may increase lidocaine plasma concentrations by decreasing lidocaine clearance and therefore prolonging the elimination half-life. Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if used together. Lidocaine is a CYP3A4 and CYP1A2 substrate; amlodipine inhibits CYP3A4.
Lisdexamfetamine: (Minor) Lisdexamfetamine might increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Lithium: (Moderate) Monitor for neurologic adverse reactions during concomitant use of lithium and calcium channel blockers. Concomitant use may increase the risk of neurologic adverse reactions, such as ataxia, tremors, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and/or tinnitus.
Lomitapide: (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and amlodipine may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lonafarnib and amlodipine; concurrent use may increase the exposure of both drugs and the risk of adverse effects. If coadministration is unavoidable, reduce to or continue lonafarnib at a dosage of 115 mg/m2 and closely monitor patients for lonafarnib-related adverse reactions and/or symptoms of hypotension and edema; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Resume previous lonafarnib dosage 14 days after discontinuing amlodipine. Lonafarnib is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with protease inhibitors is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Loratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Lorlatinib: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with lorlatinib is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use may decrease amlodipine plasma concentrations, decreasing efficacy.
Lovastatin: (Moderate) Carefully weigh the benefits of combined use of amlodipine and lovastatin against the potential risks. Lovastatin exposure may increase resulting in increased risk of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis. Although FDA-approved labeling for amlodipine or lovastatin do not suggest dose adjustments, guidelines recommend limiting the dose of lovastatin to 20 mg/day if combined with amlodipine. Lovastatin is a CYP3A4 substrate; amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Lumacaftor; ivacaftor may decrease the systemic exposure and therapeutic efficacy of amlodipine. If used together, monitor blood pressure closely; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate. Lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Lumacaftor; ivacaftor may decrease the systemic exposure and therapeutic efficacy of amlodipine. If used together, monitor blood pressure closely; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate. Lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Lurasidone: (Moderate) Due to the antagonism of lurasidone at alpha-1 adrenergic receptors, the drug may enhance the hypotensive effects of alpha-blockers and other antihypertensive agents. If concurrent use of lurasidone and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Maraviroc: (Minor) Use caution if coadministration of maraviroc with amlodipine is necessary, due to a possible increase in maraviroc exposure. Maraviroc is a CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Monitor for an increase in adverse effects with concomitant use.
Meclofenamate Sodium: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Mefenamic Acid: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Melatonin: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant calcium-channel blocker and melatonin use. Melatonin may impair the efficacy of calcium-channel blockers. In a placebo-controlled study, melatonin evening ingestion led to significant increases in blood pressure (6.5 mmHg systolic and 4.9 mmHg diastolic) and heart rate (3.9 bpm) throughout the day in patients taking a calcium channel blocker Melatonin appeared to antagonize the antihypertensive effects of the calcium channel blocker.
Meloxicam: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Methadone: (Moderate) Frequently monitor for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary; consider reducing the dose of methadone if clinically appropriate. If amlodipine is discontinued, monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal; consider increasing the methadone dose if needed. Methadone is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration with a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor like amlodipine can increase methadone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of methadone. If amlodipine is discontinued, methadone plasma concentrations may decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to methadone.
Methamphetamine: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Methohexital: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely.
Methoxsalen: (Minor) Preclinical data suggest that calcium-channel blockers could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
Methylergonovine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and amlodipine. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Methylphenidate Derivatives: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents, including calcium-channel blockers.
Methylphenidate: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents, including calcium-channel blockers.
Metoprolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
miFEPRIStone: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with mifepristone is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and mifepristone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
Milrinone: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of antihypertensive agents could lead to additive hypotension when administered with milrinone. Titrate milrinone dosage according to hemodynamic response.
Mitotane: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and amlodipine are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of amlodipine and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Modafinil: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as modafinil are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Nabumetone: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Nadolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Nafcillin: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as nafcillin, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound Sirolimus: (Major) Reduce the nab-sirolimus dose to 56 mg/m2 during concomitant use of amlodipine. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and increase the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Naproxen: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Nebivolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Nefazodone: (Moderate) Administering amlodipine with CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as nefazodone, may increase the plasma concentration of amlodipine; this effect might lead to hypotension in some individuals. Caution should be used when nefazodone is coadministered with amlodipine; therapeutic response should be monitored.
Nelfinavir: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with protease inhibitors is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Netupitant, Fosnetupitant; Palonosetron: (Moderate) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inhibitors with amlodipine can theoretically decrease the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as netupitant, are coadministered with calcium-channel blockers. Monitor therapeutic response; a dose reduction of amlodipine; valsartan may be required.
Neuromuscular blockers: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium-channel blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Niacin, Niacinamide: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents, especially calcium-channel blockers. This effect is of particular concern in the setting of acute myocardial infarction, unstable angina, or other acute hemodynamic compromise.
Nilotinib: (Moderate) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inhibitors with amlodipine can theoretically decrease the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as nilotinib, are coadministered with calcium-channel blockers. Monitor therapeutic response; a dose reduction of amlodipine may be required.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with protease inhibitors is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Nirogacestat: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with nirogacestat is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; nirogacestat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Nitrates: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
Nitroglycerin: (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
Nitroprusside: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may occur when nitroprusside is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. Dosages should be adjusted carefully, according to blood pressure.
Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Olanzapine may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the effects of antihypertensive agents.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Olanzapine may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the effects of antihypertensive agents.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Olanzapine may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the effects of antihypertensive agents.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Moderate) Rifabutin may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers.
Oritavancin: (Moderate) Amlodipine is metabolized by CYP3A4; oritavancin is a weak CYP3A4 inducer. Plasma concentrations and efficacy of amlodipine may be reduced if these drugs are administered concurrently.
Oxaprozin: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
OXcarbazepine: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as oxcarbazepine, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. If amlodipine is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with a weak inhibitor like amlodipine can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If amlodipine is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Oxymetazoline: (Major) The vasoconstricting actions of oxymetazoline, an alpha adrenergic agonist, may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. If these drugs are used together, closely monitor for changes in blood pressure.
Pacritinib: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with pacritinib is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Paliperidone: (Moderate) Paliperidone may cause orthostatic hypotension, thereby enhancing the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. Orthostatic vital signs should be monitored in patients receiving paliperidone and calcium-channel blockers who are susceptible to hypotension.
Pasireotide: (Major) Pasireotide may cause a decrease in heart rate. Closely monitor patients who are also taking drugs associated with bradycardia such as calcium-channel blockers. Dose adjustments of calcium-channel blockers may be necessary.
PAZOPanib: (Moderate) Pazopanib is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration of pazopanib and amlodipine, a CYP3A4 substrate, may cause an increase in systemic concentrations of amlodipine. Use caution when administering these drugs concomitantly.
PENTobarbital: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely.
Pentoxifylline: (Moderate) Pentoxifylline has been used concurrently with antihypertensive drugs (beta blockers, diuretics) without observed problems. Small decreases in blood pressure have been observed in some patients treated with pentoxifylline; periodic systemic blood pressure monitoring is recommended for patients receiving concomitant antihypertensives. If indicated, dosage of the antihypertensive agents should be reduced.
Perampanel: (Moderate) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as perampanel, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Pexidartinib: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with pexidartinib is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and pexidartinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Phenelzine: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may be seen when monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) are combined with antihypertensives. Careful monitoring of blood pressure is suggested during concurrent therapy of MAOIs with calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be instructed to rise slowly from a sitting position, and to report syncope or changes in blood pressure or heart rate to their health care provider.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as topiramate, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Phenytoin: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with hydantoins is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and hydantoins are strong CYP3A4 inducers. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Photosensitizing agents (topical): (Minor) Preclinical data suggest that calcium-channel blockers could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
Pindolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Piroxicam: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Posaconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with posaconazole is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Posaconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor and amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
Prazosin: (Moderate) Prazosin is well-known to produce a 'first-dose' phenomenon. Some patients develop significant hypotension shortly after administration of the first dose. The first dose response (acute postural hypotension) of prazosin may be exaggerated in patients who are receiving beta-adrenergic blockers, diuretics, or other antihypertensive agents. Concomitant administration of prazosin with other antihypertensive agents is not prohibited, however. This can be therapeutically advantageous, but lower dosages of each agent should be used. The use of alpha-blockers with verapamil can lead to excessive hypotension; In addition, verapamil has been reported to increase the AUC and Cmax of prazosin.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including calcium-channel blockers, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
Primidone: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely.
Procainamide: (Moderate) Procainamide can decrease blood pressure and should be used cautiously in patients receiving antihypertensive agents. Intravenous administration of procainamide is more likely to cause hypotensive effects.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Propofol: (Major) The depression of cardiac contractility, conductivity, and automaticity as well as the vascular dilation associated with general anesthetics may be potentiated by calcium-channel blockers. Alternatively, general anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. When used concomitantly, anesthetics and calcium-channel blockers should be titrated carefully to avoid excessive cardiovascular depression.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Protease inhibitors: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with protease inhibitors is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Pyridoxine, Vitamin B6: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
quiNIDine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased quinidine adverse reactions if coadministered with amlodipine. Taking these drugs together may increase quinidine plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in adverse events. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; quinidine is a substrate of CYP3A4 with a narrow therapeutic index. In addition, quinidine can decrease blood pressure and should be used cautiously in patients receiving antihypertensive agents due to the potential for additive hypotension.
quiNINE: (Moderate) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inhibitors with amlodipine can theoretically decrease the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as quinine, are coadministered with calcium-channel blockers. Monitor therapeutic response; a dose reduction of amlodipine may be required.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may be seen when monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) are combined with antihypertensives. Careful monitoring of blood pressure is suggested during concurrent therapy of MAOIs with calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be instructed to rise slowly from a sitting position, and to report syncope or changes in blood pressure or heart rate to their health care provider during concurrent use of an MAOI and a calcium-channel blocker.
Relacorilant: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with relacorilant is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
Remifentanil: (Moderate) The risk of significant hypotension and/or bradycardia during therapy with remifentanil may be increased in patients receiving calcium-channel blockers due to additive hypotensive effects.
Repotrectinib: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with repotrectinib is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Ribociclib: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ribociclib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ribociclib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Rifabutin: (Moderate) Rifabutin may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers.
rifAMPin: (Moderate) Rifampin is a potent inducer of the cytochrome P450 hepatic enzyme system and can reduce the plasma concentrations and possibly the efficacy of calcium-channel blockers. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers.
Rifapentine: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with rifapentine is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Rilzabrutinib: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with rilzabrutinib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Risperidone has been associated with orthostatic hypotension and may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. Clinically significant hypotension has been observed with concomitant use of risperidone and antihypertensive medications. Lower initial doses or slower dose titration of risperidone may be necessary in patients receiving antihypertensive agents concomitantly.
Ritlecitinib: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ritlecitinib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Ritonavir: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with protease inhibitors is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Rocuronium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium-channel blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Saquinavir: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with protease inhibitors is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Secobarbital: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Serdexmethylphenidate; Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents, including calcium-channel blockers.
Sevoflurane: (Major) The depression of cardiac contractility, conductivity, and automaticity as well as the vascular dilation associated with general anesthetics may be potentiated by calcium-channel blockers. Alternatively, general anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. When used concomitantly, anesthetics and calcium-channel blockers should be titrated carefully to avoid excessive cardiovascular depression.
Sildenafil: (Moderate) Monitor for additive hypotension if amlodipine is administered concurrently with sildenafil, as both agents act independently to reduce blood pressure. When sildenafil 100 mg was co-administered with amlodipine (5 mg or 10 mg) to hypertensive patients, the mean additional reduction on supine blood pressure (SBP) was 8 mmHg systolic and 7 mmHg diastolic.
Silodosin: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if silodosin is coadministered with amlodipine. The incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension were increased in patients also receiving antihypertensive medications in clinical trials.
Simvastatin: (Major) Do not exceed a simvastatin dose of 20 mg/day in patients taking amlodipine due to increased risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis. For patients chronically receiving simvastatin 80 mg/day who need to be started on amlodipine, consider switching to an alternative statin with less potential for interaction. Carefully weigh the benefits of combined use of amlodipine and simvastatin against the potential risks. Amlodipine increases the simvastatin exposure by approximately 1.5-fold.
Sincalide: (Moderate) Sincalide-induced gallbladder ejection fraction may be affected by calcium-channel blockers. False study results are possible in patients with drug-induced hyper- or hypo-responsiveness; thorough patient history is important in the interpretation of results.
Sirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor sirolimus concentrations and adjust sirolimus dosage as appropriate during concomitant use of amlodipine. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and increase the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Sodium Nitrite; Sodium Thiosulfate: (Moderate) Sodium nitrite causes vasodilation resulting in hypotension. Antihypertensive agents and other hypotension-producing agents such as vasodilators and tricyclic antidepressants can cause additive hypotensive or orthostatic effects.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir: (Moderate) Use caution when administering velpatasvir with amlodipine. Taking these drugs together may increase velpatasvir plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in adverse events. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; velpatasvir is a substrate of CYP3A4.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir; Voxilaprevir: (Moderate) Use caution when administering velpatasvir with amlodipine. Taking these drugs together may increase velpatasvir plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in adverse events. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; velpatasvir is a substrate of CYP3A4.
Sotalol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Sotorasib: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with sotorasib is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and sotorasib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with St. John's Wort is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and St. John's Wort is a strong CYP3A inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Succinylcholine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium-channel blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Because the dose of the sufentanil sublingual tablets cannot be titrated, consider an alternate opiate if amlodipine must be administered. Consider a reduced dose of sufentanil injection with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. If amlodipine is discontinued, consider increasing the sufentanil injection dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Sufentanil is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor like amlodipine can increase sufentanil exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of sufentanil. If amlodipine is discontinued, sufentanil plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to sufentanil.
Sulfacetamide; Sulfur: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Sulindac: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Tacrolimus: (Moderate) Monitor for increased tacrolimus adverse reactions if coadministered with amlodipine. Taking these drugs together may increase tacrolimus plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in adverse events. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; tacrolimus is a substrate of CYP3A4 with a narrow therapeutic index.
Tamsulosin: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of tamsulosin with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. In addition, diltiazem, nicardipine, and verapamil may increase tamsulosin plasma concentrations via CYP3A4 inhibition. This interaction can be therapeutically advantageous, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
Temsirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of angioedema if temsirolimus is administered concomitantly with amlodipine. Angioedema has been reported in patients taking mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors in combination with amlodipine.
Tetrabenazine: (Moderate) Tetrabenazine may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. Lower initial doses or slower dose titration of tetrabenazine may be necessary in patients receiving antihypertensive agents concomitantly.
Tetracaine: (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents. Use extreme caution with the concomitant use of tetracaine and antihypertensive agents.
Thalidomide: (Moderate) Thalidomide and other agents that slow cardiac conduction such as calcium-channel blockers should be used cautiously due to the potential for additive bradycardia.
Thiothixene: (Moderate) Thiothixene should be used cautiously in patients receiving antihypertensive agents. Additive hypotensive effects are possible.
Timolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Tipranavir: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with protease inhibitors is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Tolmetin: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease.
Topiramate: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as topiramate, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
traMADol: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of amlodipine, a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of amlodipine, a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with verapamil is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Tranylcypromine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of calcium-channel blockers and tranylcypromine due to the risk of additive hypotension. Potential for this interaction persists for up to 10 days after discontinuation of tranylcypromine (or 4 to 5 half-lives after discontinuation of the calcium-channel blocker). If a medication-free interval is not feasible, initiate therapy at the lowest appropriate dose and monitor blood pressure closely.
traZODone: (Minor) Due to additive hypotensive effects, patients receiving antihypertensive agents concurrently with trazodone may have excessive hypotension. Decreased dosage of the antihypertensive agent may be required when given with trazodone.
Treprostinil: (Moderate) Calcium-channel blockers can have additive hypotensive effects with other antihypertensive agents. This additive effect can be desirable, but the patient should be monitored carefully and the dosage should be adjusted based on clinical response.
Triazolam: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with amlodipine and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Tucatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with tucatinib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Tucatinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor and amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
Valproic Acid, Divalproex Sodium: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as valproic acid, divalproex sodium, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Vecuronium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium-channel blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Vemurafenib: (Moderate) Vemurafenib is an inducer of CYP3A4 and decreased plasma concentrations of drugs metabolized by this enzyme, such as amlodipine, could be expected with concurrent use. Use caution, and monitor therapeutic effects of amlodipine when coadministered with vemurafenib.
Verapamil: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with verapamil is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Verteporfin: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of verteporfin with calcium channel blockers is necessary due to the risk of increased photosensitivity. Verteporfin is a light-activated drug used in photodynamic therapy; all patients treated with verteporfin will be photosensitive. Concomitant use with calcium channel blockers could enhance the rate of verteporfin uptake by the vascular endothelium, resulting in enhanced photosensitivity.
Vinorelbine: (Moderate) Monitor for an earlier onset and/or increased severity of vinorelbine-related adverse reactions, including constipation and peripheral neuropathy, if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary. Vinorelbine is a CYP3A4 substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Vitamin B Complex Supplements: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents, especially calcium-channel blockers. This effect is of particular concern in the setting of acute myocardial infarction, unstable angina, or other acute hemodynamic compromise.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin and amlodipine, particularly in geriatric patients, due to an increased risk of hypotension and acute kidney injury. If the use of a macrolide antibiotic is necessary in a patient receiving amlodipine therapy, azithromycin is the preferred agent. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. A retrospective, case crossover study, found the risk of hospitalization due to hypotension or shock to be significantly increased in geriatric patients exposed to clarithromycin during concurrent calcium-channel blocker therapy (OR 3.7, 95% CI 2.3-6.1). Concurrent use of azithromycin was not associated with an increased risk of hypotension (OR 1.5, 95% CI 0.8-2.8).
Voriconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with voriconazole is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Voriconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor and amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
Voxelotor: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with voxelotor is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Closely monitor the INR if coadministration of warfarin with amlodipine is necessary as concurrent use may increase the exposure of warfarin leading to increased bleeding risk. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor and the R-enantiomer of warfarin is a CYP3A4 substrate. The S-enantiomer of warfarin exhibits 2 to 5 times more anticoagulant activity than the R-enantiomer, but the R-enantiomer generally has a slower clearance.
Zafirlukast: (Minor) Zafirlukast is a CYP3A4 inhibitor which theoretically may decrease the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine, a CYP3A4 substrate.
Ziprasidone: (Minor) Ziprasidone is a moderate antagonist of alpha-1 receptors and may cause orthostatic hypotension with or without tachycardia, dizziness, or syncope. Additive hypotensive effects are possible if ziprasidone is used concurrently with antihypertensive agents.


Adverse Reaction
General Information

Amlodipine therapy is generally well tolerated at doses of up to 10 mg/day. Most of the reported reactions are mild to moderate in severity and related to the drug's peripheral vasodilatory effect. Amlodipine 2.5 or 5 mg/day PO was well tolerated in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of 268 hypertensive pediatric patients 6 years and older. In this trial, 6 patients were withdrawn from amlodipine therapy due to drug-related adverse events. Adverse effects are similar to those observed for adults.

angina, arrhythmia exacerbation, atrial fibrillation, bradycardia, chest pain (unspecified), edema, flushing, hypotension, myocardial infarction, palpitations, peripheral edema, sinus tachycardia, syncope, vasculitis, ventricular tachycardia


Peripheral edema was the most commonly reported adverse reaction in clinical trials, occurring in 13.6% to 32.4% of adults. Edema (1.8% to 14.6% amlodipine vs. 0.6% to 5.1% placebo), flushing (0.7% to 4.5% vs. 0% to 0.9%), and palpitations (0.7% to 4.5% vs. 0.6% to 0.9%) appear to be dose-related and to occur more frequently in females than males. Arrhythmia exacerbation (including ventricular tachycardia and atrial fibrillation), bradycardia, syncope, chest pain (unspecified), peripheral ischemia, sinus tachycardia, and vasculitis have been reported in less than 1% of amlodipine-treated subjects in controlled clinical trials, open trials, or marketing experience; however, a causal relationship has not been established. Symptomatic hypotension is possible with amlodipine; however, because of the gradual onset of action of amlodipine, acute hypotension is unlikely. Worsening angina and acute myocardial infarction can develop after starting or increasing the dose of amlodipine.


abdominal pain, anorexia, constipation, diarrhea, dysphagia, flatulence, gingival hyperplasia, nausea, pancreatitis, vomiting, weight gain, weight loss, xerostomia


Abdominal pain (1.6% amlodipine vs. 0.3% placebo) and nausea (2.9% vs. 1.9% placebo) were reported in controlled studies. Anorexia, constipation, dysphagia, diarrhea, flatulence, gingival hyperplasia, pancreatitis, vomiting, weight gain, weight loss, and xerostomia (dry mouth) were reported in less than 1% of amlodipine-treated individuals during controlled clinical trials, open trials, or marketing experience; a casual relationship has not been established.


elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatitis, jaundice


Jaundice and elevated hepatic enzymes (mostly consistent with cholestasis or hepatitis), in some cases severe enough to require hospitalization, have been reported with postmarketing experience.


leukopenia, thrombocytopenia


Leukopenia and thrombocytopenia have been reported in less than 1% of amlodipine-treated patients in controlled clinical trials, open trials, or marketing experience; a casual relationship has not been established.


asthenia, hypoesthesia, paresthesias, peripheral neuropathy, tremor, vertigo


Asthenia has been reported in 2% or less and hypoesthesia, paresthesias, peripheral neuropathy, tremor, and vertigo have been reported in less than 1% of amlodipine-treated patients in controlled clinical trials, open trials, or marketing experience; a causal relationship has not been established.


abnormal dreams, anxiety, depression, drowsiness, fatigue, insomnia, malaise


Fatigue (4.5% amlodipine vs. 2.8% placebo) and drowsiness/somnolence (1.3% to 1.6% amlodipine vs0.3% to 0.8% placebo) have occurred during clinical trials. Insomnia, nervousness or anxiety, depression, abnormal dreams, malaise, and depersonalization have been reported in less than 1% of amlodipine-treated patients in controlled clinical trials, open trials, or marketing experience; however, a causal relationship has not been established.


arthralgia, back pain, chills, hot flashes, muscle cramps, myalgia


Muscle cramps have been reported in 2% or less of amlodipine-treated individuals. Back pain, hot flashes or flushes, pain, rigors (chills), arthralgia, arthrosis, and myalgia occurred in less than 1% of individuals in controlled clinical trials, open trials, or marketing experience; a causal relationship has not been established. Based on postmarketing reports, there is a possible association between amlodipine and extrapyramidal disorder.


dyspnea, epistaxis


Dyspnea was reported in 2% or less of amlodipine-treated patients during clinical trials. Epistaxis has been reported in less than 1% of patients in controlled clinical trials, open trials, or postmarketing experience; a casual relationship has not been established.


gynecomastia, impotence (erectile dysfunction), libido decrease


Sexual dysfunction, such as impotence (erectile dysfunction) and libido decrease, has been reported in less than 1% of females and 2% or less of males. During postmarketing surveillance, gynecomastia was infrequently reported with amlodipine therapy; however, a casual relationship is uncertain.


conjunctivitis, diplopia, ocular pain, tinnitus, visual impairment


Conjunctivitis, diplopia, ocular pain, tinnitus, and visual impairment (abnormal vision) occurred in less than 1% of amlodipine-treated patients in controlled clinical trials, open trials, or marketing experience; a causal relationship has not been established.


angioedema, diaphoresis, erythema, erythema multiforme, maculopapular rash, pruritus, purpura, rash


Pruritus and rash were reported in 2% or less of amlodipine-treated patients in clinical trials. Angioedema, allergic reactions, erythema multiforme, maculopapular rash, purpura, erythematous rash, and diaphoresis (increased sweating) occurred in less than 1% of patients in controlled clinical trials, open trials, or marketing experience; a causal relationship has not been established.


increased urinary frequency, nocturia


Increased urinary frequency, micturition disorder, and nocturia occurred in less than 1% of patients in controlled clinical trials, open trials, or marketing experience; a causal relationship has not been established.


hyperglycemia, polydipsia


Hyperglycemia and thirst (polydipsia) occurred in less than 1% of patients in amlodipine controlled clinical trials, open trials, or marketing experience; a causal relationship has not been established.


Description

Amlodipine is an oral dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker. It is used for the treatment of hypertension, chronic stable angina pectoris, and vasospastic angina (i.e, Prinzmetal's or variant angina). Amlodipine is also used to reduce the risk of hospitalization for angina or risk of coronary revascularization procedure in adults with angiographically documented coronary artery disease and without heart failure or an ejection fraction less than 40%. Amlodipine reduces intracellular calcium concentrations by inhibiting extracellular calcium influx across cardiac muscle and vascular smooth muscle cell membranes, resulting in a decrease in vascular resistance, increase in coronary blood flow, and increase in oxygen delivery to myocardial tissue. Amlodipine has the longest half-life of the dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers, which allows for once daily dosing. Symptomatic hypotension is possible with amlodipine, particularly in those with severe aortic stenosis; however, due to its gradual onset of action, acute hypotension is not likely. The CAMELOT trial demonstrated that amlodipine use in patients with documented coronary artery disease CAD results in reduced coronary revascularization procedures and reduced hospitalizations due to angina. Amlodipine was FDA-approved in 1992.

Mechanism Of Action

Amlodipine inhibits the influx of extracellular calcium across cardiac muscle and vascular smooth muscle cell membranes. While serum calcium levels remain unchanged, intracellular concentrations decrease. The decrease in intracellular calcium inhibits the contractility of smooth muscle cells resulting in dilation of coronary and systemic arteries. This dilation results in decreased vascular resistance, increased coronary blood flow, and increased oxygen delivery to myocardial tissue. Myocardial oxygen consumption is also reduced. As with other dihydropyridine class calcium channel blockers, amlodipine exerts its effects mainly on arteriolar vasculature. It has no significant effect on sinus node function or cardiac conduction, nor does it possess negative inotropic effects at clinical doses. Because it has a gradual onset, reflex tachycardia does not occur, a side effect that is common with other peripheral vasodilators. Amlodipine therapy usually does not affect hemodynamic parameters in patients with normal ventricular function.

Pharmacokinetics

Amlodipine is administered orally. Amlodipine is approximately 93% bound to plasma proteins. It is extensively metabolized to inactive compounds by the liver with 10% of the parent compound and 60% of the inactive metabolites excreted in the urine. Elimination of amlodipine from plasma is biphasic and the terminal half-life is about 30 to 50 hours for the oral tablets and oral suspension and approximately 52 hours for the oral solution. Steady-state plasma concentrations of amlodipine are reached after 7 to 8 days of consecutive daily dosing.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A4
Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of erythromycin in healthy individuals did not significantly change amlodipine systemic exposure; however, a 60% increase in amlodipine systemic exposure occurred in elderly individuals (aged 65 years and greater) who received diltiazem 180 mg once daily and amlodipine 5 mg once daily. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as clarithromycin and itraconazole, may increase amlodipine plasma concentrations.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route

After oral administration of amlodipine tablets, suspension, or solution, peak plasma levels (Cmax) are achieved between 6 and 12 hours. Oral bioavailability is estimated to be 64% to 90%; food does not significantly affect absorption. The exposure of amlodipine oral suspension and solution is similar to that of the tablets.

Hepatic Impairment

Amlodipine is extensively metabolized by the liver; clearance is decreased in individuals with hepatic impairment. In these individuals, the plasma elimination half-life is prolonged (56 hours) and the AUC is increased by 40% to 60%.

Renal Impairment

The pharmacokinetics of amlodipine are not significantly impacted by renal impairment.

Pediatrics

Children and Adolescents
Weight-adjusted clearance and volume of distribution were similar to values observed in adults during clinical trials (n= 62; age range: 6 to 17 years).   In another pharmacokinetic study, older children and adolescents with body weights similar to that of adults demonstrated similar pharmacokinetic parameters. However, children younger than 6 years demonstrated a weight-normalized clearance of 1 +/- 0.33 L/kg/hour compared to 0.63 +/- 0.36 L/kg/hour for those 6 to 12 years and 0.4 +/- 0.16 L/kg/hour for those 13 to 18 years. Amlodipine serum concentrations were similar whether amlodipine was dosed once or twice daily.

Geriatric

The elimination half-life of a single amlodipine 5 mg oral dose is prolonged (48 hours vs. 30 to 50 hours) in the elderly. Geriatric individuals have decreased clearance of amlodipine resulting in an AUC increase of approximately 40% to 60%.

Other


Heart Failure
Amlodipine AUC increases approximately 40% to 60% in patients with moderate to severe heart failure.


Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Oral Administration


May administer without regard to meals.


Oral Liquid Formulations

Oral suspension (Katerzia):
Shake well before using.
Measure dosage with a calibrated measuring device, such as an oral syringe or dosing cup.
Storage: Keep in refrigerator between 2 and 8 degrees C (36 to 46 degrees F). Do not freeze and avoid excessive heat. Protect from light.
 
Oral solution (Norliqva):
Measure dosage with a calibrated measuring device, such as an oral syringe or dosing cup.
Storage: Store at room temperature. Dispense in a light-resistant and tight container.
 
Oral solution (Sdamlo):
Do not open the aluminum pouch or tray of sealed bottles until ready to administer solution.
Do not use if bottle seal is broken or missing. Do not remove the seal until ready to mix medication.
Unit-dose bottles are for single use only. Discard any portion of medication not used within 60 minutes of mixing into household trash.
Reconstitution
Wash and dry hands.
Remove aluminum pouch from the carton, open the pouch, and remove the bottle from the tray.
Remove the child resistant cap from the bottle and gently peel off the seal. Do not remove the seal until ready to mix medication.
Use a measuring device, such as a measuring cup or spoon, to measure 15 mL (1 tablespoon) of room temperature water. Add the 15 mL of water into the opened medication bottle.
Wait 60 seconds to allow the powder to fully dissolve; shaking or manual mixing is not needed.
After 60 seconds, take or give all the liquid mixture in the bottle.
To ensure full dose has been given, rinse the bottle with approximately the same amount of water 1 to 2 additional times and take or give all the liquid each time.
Take or give the reconstituted solution immediately after or within 60 minutes of mixing. If not taken within 60 minutes, discard the solution and obtain a new bottle.


Extemporaneous Compounding-Oral

NOTE: There is an FDA-approved oral solution and suspension of amlodipine (1 mg/mL) commercially available.
Extemporaneous 1 mg/mL amlodipine oral suspension preparation:
NOTE: The extemporaneous preparation of amlodipine is not approved by the FDA.
With a mortar and pestle, grind twenty-four 5 mg amlodipine tablets to a fine powder.
In a separate container, mix 60 ml of Ora-Sweet with 60 mL of Ora-Plus to make the base solution. Shake well.
Add a small amount of base solution to amlodipine powder to form a paste. Add geometric amounts of the base solution while mixing well, leaving enough base solution to rinse the mortar after the mixture is transferred to a graduated cylinder.
Transfer mixture to a graduated cylinder and add the additional base solution to make a total volume of 120 mL.
Storage: Place in an amber plastic bottle. Shake well before each use. These oral suspensions are stable for 90 days refrigerated or up to 56 days when stored at room temperature (approximately 25 degrees C or 77 degrees F).


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

10 mg/day PO.

Geriatric

10 mg/day PO.

Adolescents

5 mg/day PO is the maximum dosage per FDA-approved labeling; however, doses up to 0.6 mg/kg/day PO (usually not exceeding adult max: 10 mg/day) have been reported.

Children

6 to 12 years: 5 mg/day PO is the maximum dosage per FDA-approved labeling; however, doses up to 0.6 mg/kg/day PO (usually not exceeding adult max: 10 mg/day) have been reported.
1 to 5 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established; however, doses up to 0.6 mg/kg/day PO have been reported off-label.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

Amlodipine Besylate 10mg Oral tablet

Amlodipine Besylate 10mg, Atorvastatin Calcium 10mg Oral tablet

Amlodipine Besylate 10mg, Atorvastatin Calcium 20mg Oral tablet

Amlodipine Besylate 10mg, Atorvastatin Calcium 40mg Oral tablet

Amlodipine Besylate 10mg, Atorvastatin Calcium 80mg Oral tablet

Amlodipine Besylate 10mg, Benazepril Hydrochloride 20mg Oral capsule

Amlodipine Besylate 10mg, Benazepril Hydrochloride 40mg Oral capsule

Amlodipine Besylate 10mg, Olmesartan Medoxomil 20mg Oral tablet

Amlodipine Besylate 10mg, Olmesartan Medoxomil 40mg Oral tablet

Amlodipine Besylate 10mg, Valsartan 160mg Oral tablet

Amlodipine Besylate 10mg, Valsartan 160mg, Hydrochlorothiazide 12.5mg Oral tablet

Amlodipine Besylate 10mg, Valsartan 160mg, Hydrochlorothiazide 25mg Oral tablet

Amlodipine Besylate 10mg, Valsartan 320mg Oral tablet

Amlodipine Besylate 10mg, Valsartan 320mg, Hydrochlorothiazide 25mg Oral tablet

Amlodipine Besylate 2.5mg Oral tablet

Amlodipine Besylate 2.5mg, Atorvastatin Calcium 10mg Oral tablet

Amlodipine Besylate 2.5mg, Atorvastatin Calcium 20mg Oral tablet

Amlodipine Besylate 2.5mg, Atorvastatin Calcium 40mg Oral tablet

Amlodipine Besylate 2.5mg, Benazepril Hydrochloride 10mg Oral capsule

Amlodipine Besylate 5mg Oral tablet

Amlodipine Besylate 5mg, Atorvastatin Calcium 10mg Oral tablet

Amlodipine Besylate 5mg, Atorvastatin Calcium 20mg Oral tablet

Amlodipine Besylate 5mg, Atorvastatin Calcium 40mg Oral tablet

Amlodipine Besylate 5mg, Atorvastatin Calcium 80mg Oral tablet

Amlodipine Besylate 5mg, Benazepril Hydrochloride 10mg Oral capsule

Amlodipine Besylate 5mg, Benazepril Hydrochloride 20mg Oral capsule

Amlodipine Besylate 5mg, Benazepril Hydrochloride 40mg Oral capsule

Amlodipine Besylate 5mg, Olmesartan Medoxomil 20mg Oral tablet

Amlodipine Besylate 5mg, Olmesartan Medoxomil 40mg Oral tablet

Amlodipine Besylate 5mg, Valsartan 160mg Oral tablet

Amlodipine Besylate 5mg, Valsartan 160mg, Hydrochlorothiazide 12.5mg Oral tablet

Amlodipine Besylate 5mg, Valsartan 160mg, Hydrochlorothiazide 25mg Oral tablet

Amlodipine Besylate 5mg, Valsartan 320mg Oral tablet

Amlodipine Besylate Bulk powder

AZOR 10mg-20mg Tablet

AZOR 10mg-40mg Tablet

AZOR 5mg-20mg Tablet

AZOR 5mg-40mg Tablet

Caduet 10mg-10mg Tablet

Caduet 10mg-20mg Tablet

Caduet 10mg-40mg Tablet

Caduet 10mg-80mg Tablet

Caduet 5mg-10mg Tablet

Caduet 5mg-20mg Tablet

Caduet 5mg-40mg Tablet

Caduet 5mg-80mg Tablet

Exforge 10mg-160mg Tablet

Exforge 10mg-320mg Tablet

Exforge 5mg-160mg Tablet

Exforge 5mg-320mg Tablet

Exforge HCT 10mg-160mg-12.5mg Tablet

Exforge HCT 10mg-160mg-25mg Tablet

Exforge HCT 10mg-320mg-25mg Tablet

Exforge HCT 5mg-160mg-12.5mg Tablet

Exforge HCT 5mg-160mg-25mg Tablet

Katerzia 1mg/mL Suspension

Lotrel 10mg-20mg Capsule

Lotrel 10mg-40mg Capsule

Lotrel 5mg-10mg Capsule

Lotrel 5mg-20mg Capsule

Norliqva 1mg/mL Solution

Norvasc 10mg Tablet

Norvasc 10mg Tablet

Norvasc 2.5mg Tablet

Norvasc 2.5mg Tablet

Norvasc 5mg Tablet

Norvasc 5mg Tablet

Sdamlo 10mg Powder for Solution

Sdamlo 2.5mg Powder for Solution

Sdamlo 5mg Powder for Solution

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Initiate adult dosage at 2.5 mg PO once daily for hypertension or 5 mg PO once daily for angina; adjust dosage based on clinical response. Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in pediatric patients with hepatic impairment are not available.

Renal Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears no dose adjustment is needed.
 
Intermittent hemodialysis
Amlodipine is highly protein bound and is not likely to be significantly removed by hemodialysis.

© 2026 Elsevier