=== Fenofibric Acid (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 3649)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Fenofibric acid is an oral fibric acid antilipemic agent; it is the active metabolite of fenofibrate.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 135 mg/day PO of fenofibric acid delayed-release capsules (TriLipix); 105 mg/day PO fenofibric acid tablets (Fibricor).

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): cholecystitis, cholelithiasis, cirrhosis, elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatitis, hepatotoxicity, jaundice, arthralgia, asthenia, elevated creatine kinase, malaise, myalgia, myopathy, rhabdomyolysis, weakness, agranulocytosis, anemia, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, infection, interstitial lung disease, pharyngitis, rhinitis, sinusitis

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Fenofibric acid is contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to fenofibric acid, choline fenofibrate, or fenofibrate. Fenofibric acid is contraindicated in patients with severe renal dysfunction including renal failure or severe renal disease and those on dialysis.

Brand Names
  - Fibricor
  - Trilipix

Dosage Forms
  - Fenofibric Acid 135mg Oral capsule, gastro-resistant pellets
  - Fenofibric Acid 45mg Oral capsule, gastro-resistant pellets

Indication Specific Dosing
  General Information
  Fibrates are expected to lower triglyceride concentrations by 30% to 50%.
Individuals should be placed on an appropriate lipid-lowering diet prior to and while receiving fenofibric acid therapy. Excess body weight, excess alcohol intact, dietary indiscretion, and poor glycemic control are important factors in conditions of elevated triglycerides and should be addressed prior to initiating fenofibric acid therapy.
Identify other causes (e.g. diabetes mellitus, hypothyroidism, or medications) of hypertriglyceridemia and manage as appropriate.
Insufficient data are available to determine the impact of fenofibric acid therapy on the risk of coronary heart disease morbidity and mortality and non-cardiovascular mortality, particularly in patients receiving statin therapy and those with type 2 diabetes mellitus. A reduction in atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) risk has been observed in individuals with elevated triglycerides and low HDL-C concentrations.
  Indications
    Related Indications
      Heading
      for the treatment of severe hypertriglyceridemia
      Routes
        Heading
        Oral dosage (fenofibric acid delayed-release capsules, TriLipix)
        Route Age Groups
          Heading
          Adults
          Dosage Description
          45 to 135 mg PO once daily. Monitor lipid concentrations as early as 4 to 8 weeks after initiation or dose adjustment and adjust dose as needed to a maximum dosage of 135 mg PO once daily.
        Heading
        Oral dosage (fenofibric acid tablets, Fibricor)
        Route Age Groups
          Heading
          Adults
          Dosage Description
          35 to 105 mg PO once daily. Monitor lipid concentrations as early as 4 to 8 weeks after initiation or dose adjustment and adjust dose as needed to a maximum dosage of 105 mg PO once daily.
    Routes
    Heading
    For use as an adjunct to diet for the treatment of severe hypertriglyceridemia (i.e., triglycerides 500 mg/dL or more)
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage (fenofibric acid delayed-release capsules, TriLipix)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        135 mg PO once daily. Monitor lipid concentrations as early as 4 to 8 weeks after initiation. Discontinue therapy in patients who do not have a satisfactory response after 2 months.
      Heading
      Oral dosage (fenofibric acid tablets, Fibricor)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        105 mg PO once daily. Monitor lipid concentrations as early as 4 to 8 weeks after initiation. Discontinue therapy in patients who do not have a satisfactory response after 2 months. Maximum dose is 105 mg PO once daily.
    Heading
    For the treatment of primary hyperlipidemia, including hypercholesterolemia, as an adjunct to dietary control

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Fenofibric acid is contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to fenofibric acid, choline fenofibrate, or fenofibrate.
 
Fenofibric acid is contraindicated in patients with severe renal dysfunction including renal failure or severe renal disease and those on dialysis. Per the manufacturer, fenofibric acid accumulates during chronic therapy in these patients and is not removed by hemodialysis. Fenofibric acid clearance is also reduced in patients with mild to moderate renal impairment. The risk of rhabdomyolysis and myositis may be increased in patients with impaired renal function who take fibric acid derivatives (see Adverse Reactions). Lower doses should be prescribed in patients who have moderate renal dysfunction (see Dosage).
 
Fenofibric acid is contraindicated in patients with pre-existing gallbladder disease because it may exacerbate this condition. Other fibric acid derivatives, clofibrate and gemfibrozil, have been associated with a higher risk of cholecystitis and cholelithiasis in clinical trials. Fenofibric acid is the active metabolite of fenofibrate. The association between fenofibrate and gallbladder disease is less defined, but post-marketing studies in Europe suggest that the frequency of gallstones may not be significantly increased with therapy (see Adverse Reactions). However, fenofibric acid may increase the saturation of cholesterol in the bile, and therefore could potentially lead to cholelithiasis. If gallstones develop, discontinue fenofibric acid.
 
Fenofibric acid is contraindicated in patients with pre-existing hepatic disease, including those with primary biliary cirrhosis and unexplained persistent liver function abnormalities (see Adverse Reactions).
 
Significantly elevated serum triglyceride concentrations (e.g., > 2000 mg/dl) may increase the risk of pancreatitis. The effect of fenofibric acid on this risk has not been adequately studied. Pancreatitis has been reported in patients taking fenofibric acid (see Adverse Reactions). Use fenofibric acid with caution in patients at risk for developing pancreatitis.
 
Because of clinical and pharmacologic similarities between fenofibric acid and other fibric acid derivatives, findings of important cardiac trials of gemfibrozil and clofibrate may also be applicable to fenofibrate and fenofibric acid. In the Helsinki Heart Study, men with known heart disease (secondary prevention group) had a higher trend of cardiac deaths with gemfibrozil versus placebo. Total mortality was found to be elevated in the primary prevention group, despite the effectiveness of gemfibrozil in preventing heart disease. In a study conducted by the WHO, patients without coronary heart disease were treated with clofibrate or placebo for 5 years. There was a significant increase in deaths from non-cardiac causes, including malignancy, post-cholecystectomy complications, and pancreatitis in the clofibrate group. All trials included large numbers of patients treated with fibric acid derivatives for several years. No such trials have been performed for fenofibrate or fenofibric acid, and the benefit/risk ratio for primary or secondary cardiac disease, or other non-cardiovascular mortality has not been established. Fenofibric acid should only be used in the treatment of dyslipidemias where the benefit to the patient would outweigh the potential health risks.
 
Caution should be used when fenofibric acid is used in patients with thromboembolic disease. Fenofibric acid is the active metabolite of fenofibrate, and thrombosis has occurred in patients taking fenofibrate (see Adverse Reactions). In addition, caution should be used when prescribing fenofibrate or fenofibric acid to patients receiving anticoagulant therapy. Fenofibrate has been shown to potentiate the effects of coumarin-type anticoagulants (see Drug Interactions).
 
In elderly volunteers, the oral clearance of fenofibric acid following a single dose was similar to that observed in young adults, suggesting that a similar dosage regimen can be used for elderly patients. However, the risk of adverse effects from fenofibric acid is greater in patients with impaired renal function. Since elderly patients have a higher incidence of renal impairment, dose selection for elderly patients should be based on renal function (see Dosage).
 
Fenofibric acid has been classified as pregnancy category C by the FDA. Adequate or well-controlled studies have not been conducted in humans. Use of fenofibric acid during pregnancy should be avoided unless the potential benefits justify the potential risks to the fetus. Fenofibric acid is approved to be used in combination with statins. However, all statins are contraindicated in pregnant women.
 
According to the manufacturer, fenofibric acid is contraindicated in women who are breast-feeding. It is not known whether fenofibric acid is excreted into human breast-milk. Fenofibric acid is the active metabolite of fenofibrate. Animal studies have indicated that fenofibrate has tumorigenic, but not mutagenic, potential and may be harmful to infants. The importance of continued fenofibric acid therapy to the mother should be considered in making the decision whether to discontinue breast-feeding or discontinue the medication.
 
The safety and efficacy of fenofibric acid administered as monotherapy or in combination with a statin has not been established in children.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    chylomicronemia, diabetes mellitus
    General Information
    In individuals with diabetes or fasting chylomicronemia, improve glycemic control prior to starting fenofibric acid therapy. Fenofibrate did not reduce cardiovascular disease morbidity or mortality in two large, randomized controlled trials of individuals with type 2 diabetes mellitus. A reduction in atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) risk has been observed in individuals with elevated triglycerides and low HDL-C concentrations. The Action to Control Cardiovascular Risk in Diabetes (ACCORD) trial showed combination therapy with fenofibrate and simvastatin does not reduce the rate of cardiovascular disease in high risk type 2 diabetics compared to simvastatin alone. The addition of fenofibrate to simvastatin did not result in a statistically significant difference in the primary outcome, defined as the first occurrence of a major cardiovascular event including nonfatal myocardial infarction, nonfatal stroke, or death from cardiovascular causes. Additionally, there was no significant difference in the annual rate of death from any cause between fenofibrate and placebo. Although there was a trend toward benefit in a subgroup of patients with both a triglyceride level in the highest third and an HDL cholesterol level in the lowest third, the difference was not statistically significant. Another subgroup analysis showed men seemed to benefit from the addition of fenofibrate; whereas, there was a trend toward harm in women. The Fenofibrate Intervention and Event Lowering in Diabetes (FIELD) study demonstrated a non-significant 11% relative reduction in the primary outcome of coronary heart disease events and a significant 11% reduction in the secondary outcome of total cardiovascular disease events (HR 0.89 (0.89-0.99), p=0.04) with fenofibrate therapy. Further results indicate a non-significant 11% and 19% increase in total and coronary heart disease mortality, respectively, associated with the use of fenofibrate as compared to placebo.
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    Fenofibric acid is contraindicated in individuals with severe renal impairment (eGFR less than 30 mL/minute/1.73 m2), including renal failure or end-stage renal disease (ESRD), and those on dialysis. A dosage adjustment is recommended in individuals with mild to moderate renal impairment (eGFR 30 to 59 mL/minute/1.73 m2). Elevations in serum creatinine have been reported in patients receiving fenofibrate therapy; however, the clinical significance of these elevations is unknown. Following discontinuation of therapy, serum creatinine levels typically return to baseline levels. The risk of rhabdomyolysis, myositis, and myopathy may be increased in those with renal failure receiving fenofibric acid therapy. Assess renal function prior to initiation of fenofibric acid and periodically during therapy. Consider monitoring renal function in individuals with renal impairment and those at risk for renal insufficiency, such as the elderly or those with diabetes.
    Headline
    hepatic disease
    General Information
    Fenofibric acid is contraindicated in individuals with active hepatic disease, including those with unexplained persistent liver function abnormalities. Serious drug-induced liver injury (DILI), including liver transplantation and death, has been reported with postmarketing use of fenofibric acid. Many individuals had concurrent elevations of total bilirubin, aspartate aminotransferase (AST), and alanine aminotransferase (ALT).  Monitor liver function, including AST, ALT, and bilirubin, at baseline and periodically throughout fenofibric acid therapy. If an individual experiences persistent LFT elevations (ALT or AST greater than 3 times the upper limit of normal or if accompanied by elevations in bilirubin) or develops signs or symptoms of liver injury, discontinue fenofibric acid. Do not restart fenofibric acid therapy if there is no alternative explanation for the liver injury.
    Headline
    carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1A deficiency, carnitine palmitoyltransferase II deficiency, electrolyte imbalance, females, geriatric, hypothyroidism, hypovolemia, infection, major surgery, seizure disorder, shock, substance abuse disorder, trauma
    General Information
    Risk factors for the development of fenofibric acid-related muscle symptoms, such as myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, include geriatric adults (age 65 years and older), females, endocrine disease (e.g., diabetes mellitus, uncontrolled or untreated hypothyroidism), electrolyte imbalance, renal impairment, neuromuscular disease/metabolic muscle disorder (e.g., carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1A deficiency, carnitine palmitoyltransferase II deficiency), infection, preexisting myopathy (including congenital myopathies), alcohol or substance abuse disorder (e.g., amphetamine, cocaine, heroin), major surgery, and concomitant use with certain drugs (including statins). Discontinue fenofibric acid if markedly elevated CK levels occur or myopathy is diagnosed or suspected. Temporarily discontinue fenofibric acid in individuals experiencing an acute or serious condition at high risk of developing renal failure secondary to rhabdomyolysis (e.g., sepsis, shock, severe hypovolemia, major surgery, trauma, severe metabolic disorders, severe endocrine disease, severe electrolyte imbalance, or uncontrolled seizure disorder). Instruct individuals to promptly report unexplained muscle pain, tenderness or weakness, especially if accompanied by malaise or fever.
    Headline
    gallbladder disease
    General Information
    Fenofibric acid is contraindicated in individuals with pre-existing gallbladder disease since it may exacerbate this condition. Similar to clofibrate and gemfibrozil, fenofibric acid increases cholesterol excretion and decreases bile acid excretion into bile resulting in cholesterol saturation and an increased risk of cholelithiasis and cholesterol gallstones. If gallstones develop, discontinue fenofibric acid therapy.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    In general, avoid the use of fenofibric acid during pregnancy. Fibrates may be considered during the second and third trimesters for individuals with severe hypertriglyceridemia to prevent pancreatitis, only if the benefit outweighs the risk. Limited data on the use in human pregnancy are insufficient to determine an associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse outcomes. In animal reproduction studies, no evidence of embryo-fetal toxicity was observed with oral fenofibrate administration during organogenesis at doses less than or equivalent to the maximum recommended clinical dose (based on body surface area). Adverse reproductive outcomes, such as increased fetal skeletal malformations, aborted litters, post-implantation loss, and decreased pup survival, occurred at higher doses in the presence of maternal toxicity in pregnant rabbits and rats.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking fenofibric acid and for 5 days after the last dose, due to the potential for serious adverse reactions in the breastfed child (e.g., disruption of infant lipid metabolism). It is not known if fenofibric acid is present in human milk. If pharmacotherapy is necessary for the breast-feeding patient, consider a nonabsorbable resin such as cholestyramine, colesevelam, or colestipol. These agents do not enter the bloodstream and therefore will not be excreted during lactation. However, resins bind fat-soluble vitamins, and prolonged use may result in deficiencies of these vitamins in the breast-feeding individual and the breastfed child.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    In general, avoid the use of fenofibric acid during pregnancy. Fibrates may be considered during the second and third trimesters for individuals with severe hypertriglyceridemia to prevent pancreatitis, only if the benefit outweighs the risk. Limited data on the use in human pregnancy are insufficient to determine an associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse outcomes. In animal reproduction studies, no evidence of embryo-fetal toxicity was observed with oral fenofibrate administration during organogenesis at doses less than or equivalent to the maximum recommended clinical dose (based on body surface area). Adverse reproductive outcomes, such as increased fetal skeletal malformations, aborted litters, post-implantation loss, and decreased pup survival, occurred at higher doses in the presence of maternal toxicity in pregnant rabbits and rats.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking fenofibric acid and for 5 days after the last dose, due to the potential for serious adverse reactions in the breastfed child (e.g., disruption of infant lipid metabolism). It is not known if fenofibric acid is present in human milk. If pharmacotherapy is necessary for the breast-feeding patient, consider a nonabsorbable resin such as cholestyramine, colesevelam, or colestipol. These agents do not enter the bloodstream and therefore will not be excreted during lactation. However, resins bind fat-soluble vitamins, and prolonged use may result in deficiencies of these vitamins in the breast-feeding individual and the breastfed child.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Acyclovir: (Moderate) Concomitant use of acyclovir and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Adefovir: (Moderate) Concomitant use of adefovir dipivoxil and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Aldesleukin, IL-2: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of aldesleukin and fenofibric acid; coadministration may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Amikacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of aminoglycosides and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Aminoglycosides: (Moderate) Concomitant use of aminoglycosides and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis if concomitant use of a HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor (statin) and fenofibric acid is necessary. The risk for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is greatest during statin therapy initiation and upward dosage titration. Both medications are associated with myopathy and rhabdomyolysis and concomitant use may further increase risk for these adverse effects.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Amphotericin B lipid complex (ABLC): (Moderate) Concomitant use of amphotericin B and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Amphotericin B liposomal (LAmB): (Moderate) Concomitant use of amphotericin B and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Amphotericin B: (Moderate) Concomitant use of amphotericin B and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis if concomitant use of a HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor (statin) and fenofibric acid is necessary. The risk for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is greatest during statin therapy initiation and upward dosage titration. Both medications are associated with myopathy and rhabdomyolysis and concomitant use may further increase risk for these adverse effects.
Bempedoic Acid: (Moderate) Monitor triglycerides and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) during coadministration of bempedoic acid and fenofibric acid. Concomitant use may cause an increase in triglycerides or HDL-C; assess triglyceride and HDL-C concentrations 4 weeks after initial concomitant use and periodically thereafter. If elevated triglycerides and/or HDL-C occur, consider discontinuation of bempedoic acid or fenofibric acid.
Bempedoic Acid; Ezetimibe: (Moderate) Monitor triglycerides and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) during coadministration of bempedoic acid and fenofibric acid. Concomitant use may cause an increase in triglycerides or HDL-C; assess triglyceride and HDL-C concentrations 4 weeks after initial concomitant use and periodically thereafter. If elevated triglycerides and/or HDL-C occur, consider discontinuation of bempedoic acid or fenofibric acid. (Minor) If cholelithiasis occurs or is suspected during concomitant use, avoid ezetimibe with fenofibric acid. Both medications increase cholesterol excretion into the bile and may increase the risk for cholelithiasis.
Bictegravir; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of tenofovir alafenamide and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Bile acid sequestrants: (Moderate) Separate the administration of fenofibric acid and bile acid sequestrants if concomitant use is necessary: administer fenofibric acid at least 1 hour before or 4 hours after the bile acid sequestrant. Simultaneous administration may decrease fenofibric acid absorption and reduce fenofibric acid efficacy.
Bosentan: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in bosentan-related adverse reactions if concomitant use of fenofibric acid is necessary. Concomitant use may increase bosentan exposure. Bosentan is a CYP2C9 substrate and fenofibric acid is a weak CYP2C9 inhibitor.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Moderate) Monitor renal function and for other meloxicam-related adverse effects if concomitant use of meloxicam and fenofibric acid is necessary; a meloxicam dosage reduction may be required. Fenofibric acid may increase meloxicam exposure, potentially increasing the risk for meloxicam-related adverse effects. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), like meloxicam, and fenofibric acid are also both associated with nephrotoxicity; concomitant use may increase risk. Meloxicam is a CYP2C9 substrate and fenofibric acid is a weak CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Capecitabine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of capecitabine and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
CARBOplatin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of carboplatin and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Celecoxib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Cholestyramine: (Moderate) Separate the administration of fenofibric acid and bile acid sequestrants if concomitant use is necessary: administer fenofibric acid at least 1 hour before or 4 hours after the bile acid sequestrant. Simultaneous administration may decrease fenofibric acid absorption and reduce fenofibric acid efficacy.
Cidofovir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of cidofovir and fenofibric acid is contraindicated due to the increased risk of nephrotoxicity. Fenofibric acid must be discontinued at least 7 days prior to starting therapy with cidofovir.
CISplatin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of cisplatin and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Clindamycin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clindamycin and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Clofarabine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Colchicine: (Moderate) Monitor for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis if concomitant use of colchicine and fenofibric acid is necessary. The risk for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is greatest during colchicine initiation and upward dosage titration. Elderly patients and those with renal dysfunction are also at increased risk. Cases of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis have been reported with concomitant use.
Colesevelam: (Moderate) Separate the administration of fenofibric acid and bile acid sequestrants if concomitant use is necessary: administer fenofibric acid at least 1 hour before or 4 hours after the bile acid sequestrant. Simultaneous administration may decrease fenofibric acid absorption and reduce fenofibric acid efficacy.
Colestipol: (Moderate) Separate the administration of fenofibric acid and bile acid sequestrants if concomitant use is necessary: administer fenofibric acid at least 1 hour before or 4 hours after the bile acid sequestrant. Simultaneous administration may decrease fenofibric acid absorption and reduce fenofibric acid efficacy.
Colistimethate, Colistin, Polymyxin E: (Moderate) Concomitant use of colistin and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Colistin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of colistin and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of cyclosporine and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of tenofovir alafenamide and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Deferasirox: (Moderate) Concomitant use of deferasirox and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required. Avoid use of fenofibric acid in pediatric patients (2 to 17 years) who develop decreases in renal function while receiving deferasirox.
Diclofenac: (Moderate) Monitor renal function and for other diclofenac-related adverse effects if concomitant use of diclofenac and fenofibric acid is necessary; a diclofenac dosage reduction may be required based on clinical response. Fenofibric acid may increase diclofenac exposure, potentially increasing the risk for diclofenac-related adverse effects. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), like diclofenac, and fenofibric acid are also both associated with nephrotoxicity; concomitant use may increase risk. Diclofenac is a CYP2C9 substrate and fenofibric acid is a weak CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Moderate) Monitor renal function and for other diclofenac-related adverse effects if concomitant use of diclofenac and fenofibric acid is necessary; a diclofenac dosage reduction may be required based on clinical response. Fenofibric acid may increase diclofenac exposure, potentially increasing the risk for diclofenac-related adverse effects. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), like diclofenac, and fenofibric acid are also both associated with nephrotoxicity; concomitant use may increase risk. Diclofenac is a CYP2C9 substrate and fenofibric acid is a weak CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Diflunisal: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of tenofovir and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of tenofovir and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of tenofovir and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Elafibranor: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of liver injury, myalgia, myopathy, and rhabdomyolysis if concomitant use of elafibranor and fenofibric acid is necessary. Both medications are associated with these adverse effects and concomitant use may increase risk.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of tenofovir alafenamide and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of tenofovir and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of tenofovir alafenamide and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of tenofovir and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of tenofovir alafenamide and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of tenofovir and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Ethiodized Oil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of non-ionic contrast media and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Etodolac: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Ezetimibe: (Minor) If cholelithiasis occurs or is suspected during concomitant use, avoid ezetimibe with fenofibric acid. Both medications increase cholesterol excretion into the bile and may increase the risk for cholelithiasis.
Ezetimibe; Simvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis if concomitant use of a HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor (statin) and fenofibric acid is necessary. The risk for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is greatest during statin therapy initiation and upward dosage titration. Both medications are associated with myopathy and rhabdomyolysis and concomitant use may further increase risk for these adverse effects. (Minor) If cholelithiasis occurs or is suspected during concomitant use, avoid ezetimibe with fenofibric acid. Both medications increase cholesterol excretion into the bile and may increase the risk for cholelithiasis.
Fenoprofen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Flurbiprofen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Fluvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis if concomitant use of a HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor (statin) and fenofibric acid is necessary. The risk for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is greatest during statin therapy initiation and upward dosage titration. Both medications are associated with myopathy and rhabdomyolysis and concomitant use may further increase risk for these adverse effects.
Foscarnet: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of foscarnet and fenofibric acid; coadministration may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Fosphenytoin: (Moderate) Monitor phenytoin concentrations during concomitant therapy with fosphenytoin and fenofibric acid due to risk for phenytoin toxicity. Concomitant use may increase phenytoin concentrations. Phenytoin is a CYP2C9 substrate and fenofibric acid is a CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Ganciclovir: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ganciclovir and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Gentamicin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of aminoglycosides and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Glimepiride: (Moderate) Increase the frequency of blood glucose monitoring if concomitant use of fenofibric acid and a sulfonylurea is necessary; a sulfonylurea dosage decrease may be required. Fenofibric acid alters glucose metabolism, and concomitant use may increase the risk for hypoglycemia.
glipiZIDE: (Moderate) Increase the frequency of blood glucose monitoring if concomitant use of fenofibric acid and a sulfonylurea is necessary; a sulfonylurea dosage decrease may be required. Fenofibric acid alters glucose metabolism, and concomitant use may increase the risk for hypoglycemia.
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Increase the frequency of blood glucose monitoring if concomitant use of fenofibric acid and a sulfonylurea is necessary; a sulfonylurea dosage decrease may be required. Fenofibric acid alters glucose metabolism, and concomitant use may increase the risk for hypoglycemia.
glyBURIDE: (Moderate) Increase the frequency of blood glucose monitoring if concomitant use of fenofibric acid and a sulfonylurea is necessary; a sulfonylurea dosage decrease may be required. Fenofibric acid alters glucose metabolism, and concomitant use may increase the risk for hypoglycemia.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Increase the frequency of blood glucose monitoring if concomitant use of fenofibric acid and a sulfonylurea is necessary; a sulfonylurea dosage decrease may be required. Fenofibric acid alters glucose metabolism, and concomitant use may increase the risk for hypoglycemia.
HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors: (Moderate) Monitor for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis if concomitant use of a HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor (statin) and fenofibric acid is necessary. The risk for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is greatest during statin therapy initiation and upward dosage titration. Both medications are associated with myopathy and rhabdomyolysis and concomitant use may further increase risk for these adverse effects.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Ibuprofen lysine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Indomethacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Insulin Aspart: (Moderate) Increase the frequency of blood glucose monitoring if concomitant use of fenofibric acid and insulin is necessary; a insulin dosage decrease may be required. Fenofibric acid alters glucose metabolism, and concomitant use may increase the risk for hypoglycemia.
Insulin Aspart; Insulin Aspart Protamine: (Moderate) Increase the frequency of blood glucose monitoring if concomitant use of fenofibric acid and insulin is necessary; a insulin dosage decrease may be required. Fenofibric acid alters glucose metabolism, and concomitant use may increase the risk for hypoglycemia.
Insulin Degludec: (Moderate) Increase the frequency of blood glucose monitoring if concomitant use of fenofibric acid and insulin is necessary; a insulin dosage decrease may be required. Fenofibric acid alters glucose metabolism, and concomitant use may increase the risk for hypoglycemia.
Insulin Degludec; Liraglutide: (Moderate) Increase the frequency of blood glucose monitoring if concomitant use of fenofibric acid and insulin is necessary; a insulin dosage decrease may be required. Fenofibric acid alters glucose metabolism, and concomitant use may increase the risk for hypoglycemia.
Insulin Detemir: (Moderate) Increase the frequency of blood glucose monitoring if concomitant use of fenofibric acid and insulin is necessary; a insulin dosage decrease may be required. Fenofibric acid alters glucose metabolism, and concomitant use may increase the risk for hypoglycemia.
Insulin Glargine: (Moderate) Increase the frequency of blood glucose monitoring if concomitant use of fenofibric acid and insulin is necessary; a insulin dosage decrease may be required. Fenofibric acid alters glucose metabolism, and concomitant use may increase the risk for hypoglycemia.
Insulin Glargine; Lixisenatide: (Moderate) Increase the frequency of blood glucose monitoring if concomitant use of fenofibric acid and insulin is necessary; a insulin dosage decrease may be required. Fenofibric acid alters glucose metabolism, and concomitant use may increase the risk for hypoglycemia.
Insulin Glulisine: (Moderate) Increase the frequency of blood glucose monitoring if concomitant use of fenofibric acid and insulin is necessary; a insulin dosage decrease may be required. Fenofibric acid alters glucose metabolism, and concomitant use may increase the risk for hypoglycemia.
Insulin Icodec: (Moderate) Increase the frequency of blood glucose monitoring if concomitant use of fenofibric acid and insulin is necessary; a insulin dosage decrease may be required. Fenofibric acid alters glucose metabolism, and concomitant use may increase the risk for hypoglycemia.
Insulin Lispro: (Moderate) Increase the frequency of blood glucose monitoring if concomitant use of fenofibric acid and insulin is necessary; a insulin dosage decrease may be required. Fenofibric acid alters glucose metabolism, and concomitant use may increase the risk for hypoglycemia.
Insulin Lispro; Insulin Lispro Protamine: (Moderate) Increase the frequency of blood glucose monitoring if concomitant use of fenofibric acid and insulin is necessary; a insulin dosage decrease may be required. Fenofibric acid alters glucose metabolism, and concomitant use may increase the risk for hypoglycemia.
Insulin, Inhaled: (Moderate) Increase the frequency of blood glucose monitoring if concomitant use of fenofibric acid and insulin is necessary; a insulin dosage decrease may be required. Fenofibric acid alters glucose metabolism, and concomitant use may increase the risk for hypoglycemia.
Insulins: (Moderate) Increase the frequency of blood glucose monitoring if concomitant use of fenofibric acid and insulin is necessary; a insulin dosage decrease may be required. Fenofibric acid alters glucose metabolism, and concomitant use may increase the risk for hypoglycemia.
Iodixanol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of non-ionic contrast media and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Iohexol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of non-ionic contrast media and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Iomeprol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of non-ionic contrast media and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Ionic Contrast Media: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ionic contrast media and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Iopamidol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of non-ionic contrast media and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Iopromide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of non-ionic contrast media and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Ioversol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of non-ionic contrast media and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Increase the frequency of blood glucose monitoring if concomitant use of fenofibric acid and insulin is necessary; a insulin dosage decrease may be required. Fenofibric acid alters glucose metabolism, and concomitant use may increase the risk for hypoglycemia.
Isosulfan Blue: (Moderate) Concomitant use of non-ionic contrast media and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Ketoprofen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Ketorolac: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of tenofovir and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lonafarnib and fenofibric acid; concurrent use may increase the exposure of lonafarnib and the risk of adverse effects. If coadministration is unavoidable, closely monitor patients for lonafarnib-related adverse reactions. Lonafarnib is a CYP2C9 substrate and fenofibric acid is a CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Lovastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis if concomitant use of a HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor (statin) and fenofibric acid is necessary. The risk for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is greatest during statin therapy initiation and upward dosage titration. Both medications are associated with myopathy and rhabdomyolysis and concomitant use may further increase risk for these adverse effects.
Mannitol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mannitol and fenofibric acid; coadministration may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Meclofenamate Sodium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Mefenamic Acid: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Meloxicam: (Moderate) Monitor renal function and for other meloxicam-related adverse effects if concomitant use of meloxicam and fenofibric acid is necessary; a meloxicam dosage reduction may be required. Fenofibric acid may increase meloxicam exposure, potentially increasing the risk for meloxicam-related adverse effects. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), like meloxicam, and fenofibric acid are also both associated with nephrotoxicity; concomitant use may increase risk. Meloxicam is a CYP2C9 substrate and fenofibric acid is a weak CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Moderate) Monitor renal function and for other meloxicam-related adverse effects if concomitant use of meloxicam and fenofibric acid is necessary; a meloxicam dosage reduction may be required. Fenofibric acid may increase meloxicam exposure, potentially increasing the risk for meloxicam-related adverse effects. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), like meloxicam, and fenofibric acid are also both associated with nephrotoxicity; concomitant use may increase risk. Meloxicam is a CYP2C9 substrate and fenofibric acid is a weak CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Mesalamine, 5-ASA: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mesalamine and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Methadone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of methadone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of fenofibric acid is necessary. If fenofibric acid is discontinued, methadone plasma concentrations can decrease resulting in reduced efficacy and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to methadone. Methadone is a substrate of CYP3A, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, and CYP2D6; fenofibric acid is a weak CYP2C9 inhibitor. Concomitant use with fenofibric acid can increase methadone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of methadone.
Nabumetone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Naproxen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Nateglinide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in nateglinide-related adverse effects, such as hypoglycemia, if concomitant use with fenofibric acid is necessary; a nateglinide dosage reduction may be required. Concomitant use may increase nateglinide exposure. Additionally, fenofibric acid alters glucose metabolism which may further increase the risk for hypoglycemia. Nateglinide is a CYP2C9 substrate and fenofibric acid is a CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Neomycin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neomycin and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Non-Ionic Contrast Media: (Moderate) Concomitant use of non-ionic contrast media and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Oxaprozin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Pamidronate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of pamidronate and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Paromomycin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of aminoglycosides and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Pentamidine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of pentamidine and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Phenytoin: (Moderate) Monitor phenytoin concentrations during concomitant therapy with fenofibric acid due to risk for phenytoin toxicity. Concomitant use may increase phenytoin concentrations. Phenytoin is a CYP2C9 substrate and fenofibric acid is a CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Pioglitazone; Glimepiride: (Moderate) Increase the frequency of blood glucose monitoring if concomitant use of fenofibric acid and a sulfonylurea is necessary; a sulfonylurea dosage decrease may be required. Fenofibric acid alters glucose metabolism, and concomitant use may increase the risk for hypoglycemia.
Piroxicam: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Pitavastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis if concomitant use of a HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor (statin) and fenofibric acid is necessary. The risk for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is greatest during statin therapy initiation and upward dosage titration. Both medications are associated with myopathy and rhabdomyolysis and concomitant use may further increase risk for these adverse effects.
Plazomicin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of aminoglycosides and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Polymyxin B: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of polymyxin B and fenofibric acid; coadministration may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Pramlintide: (Moderate) Increase the frequency of blood glucose monitoring if concomitant use of fenofibric acid and pramlintide is necessary; a pramlintide dosage decrease may be required. Fenofibric acid alters glucose metabolism, and concomitant use may increase the risk for hypoglycemia.
Pravastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis if concomitant use of a HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor (statin) and fenofibric acid is necessary. The risk for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is greatest during statin therapy initiation and upward dosage titration. Both medications are associated with myopathy and rhabdomyolysis and concomitant use may further increase risk for these adverse effects.
Probenecid; Colchicine: (Moderate) Monitor for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis if concomitant use of colchicine and fenofibric acid is necessary. The risk for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is greatest during colchicine initiation and upward dosage titration. Elderly patients and those with renal dysfunction are also at increased risk. Cases of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis have been reported with concomitant use.
Raltegravir: (Moderate) Monitor for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis if concomitant use of raltegravir and fenofibric acid is necessary. Both medications are associated with myopathy and rhabdomyolysis and concomitant use may further increase risk for these adverse effects.
Red Yeast Rice: (Moderate) Monitor for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis if concomitant use of red yeast rice and fenofibric acid is necessary. The risk for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is greatest during red yeast rice therapy initiation and upward dosage titration. Both medications are associated with myopathy and rhabdomyolysis and concomitant use may further increase risk for these adverse effects.
Regular Insulin: (Moderate) Increase the frequency of blood glucose monitoring if concomitant use of fenofibric acid and insulin is necessary; a insulin dosage decrease may be required. Fenofibric acid alters glucose metabolism, and concomitant use may increase the risk for hypoglycemia.
Regular Insulin; Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Increase the frequency of blood glucose monitoring if concomitant use of fenofibric acid and insulin is necessary; a insulin dosage decrease may be required. Fenofibric acid alters glucose metabolism, and concomitant use may increase the risk for hypoglycemia.
Repaglinide: (Moderate) Increase the frequency of blood glucose monitoring if concomitant use of fenofibric acid and repaglinide is necessary; a repaglinide dosage decrease may be required. Fenofibric acid alters glucose metabolism, and concomitant use may increase the risk for hypoglycemia.
Rosuvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis if concomitant use of a HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor (statin) and fenofibric acid is necessary. The risk for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is greatest during statin therapy initiation and upward dosage titration. Both medications are associated with myopathy and rhabdomyolysis and concomitant use may further increase risk for these adverse effects.
Rosuvastatin; Ezetimibe: (Moderate) Monitor for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis if concomitant use of a HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor (statin) and fenofibric acid is necessary. The risk for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is greatest during statin therapy initiation and upward dosage titration. Both medications are associated with myopathy and rhabdomyolysis and concomitant use may further increase risk for these adverse effects. (Minor) If cholelithiasis occurs or is suspected during concomitant use, avoid ezetimibe with fenofibric acid. Both medications increase cholesterol excretion into the bile and may increase the risk for cholelithiasis.
Simvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis if concomitant use of a HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor (statin) and fenofibric acid is necessary. The risk for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is greatest during statin therapy initiation and upward dosage titration. Both medications are associated with myopathy and rhabdomyolysis and concomitant use may further increase risk for these adverse effects.
Streptomycin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of aminoglycosides and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Streptozocin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of streptozocin and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Sulfonylureas: (Moderate) Increase the frequency of blood glucose monitoring if concomitant use of fenofibric acid and a sulfonylurea is necessary; a sulfonylurea dosage decrease may be required. Fenofibric acid alters glucose metabolism, and concomitant use may increase the risk for hypoglycemia.
Sulindac: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Tacrolimus: (Moderate) Concomitant use of tacrolimus and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Telavancin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of telavancin and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of tenofovir alafenamide and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of tenofovir and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Tobramycin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of aminoglycosides and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Tolmetin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
valACYclovir: (Moderate) Concomitant use of valacyclovir and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
valGANciclovir: (Moderate) Concomitant use of valganciclovir and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Vancomycin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of vancomycin and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Voclosporin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of voclosporine and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Closely monitor INR if coadministration of warfarin with fenofibric acid is necessary; a warfarin dosage reduction may be required. Concurrent use may potentiate the anticoagulation effects of warfarin leading to increased bleeding risk.
Zoledronic Acid: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zoledronic acid and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  Gastrointestinal side effects associated with fenofibric acid generally occur in 3—5% of patients. In clinical trials of fenofibric acid monotherapy, constipation was reported in 3.3% of patients. When used in combination with statins, the incidence of constipation remained approximately 3.3%. In fenofibrate trials (at a dose equivalent to 135 mg fenofibric acid), the incidence of constipation was 2.1%. In clinical trials of fenofibric acid monotherapy, diarrhea was reported in 3.9% of patients. When used in combination with statins, the incidence of diarrhea ranged from 3.1—3.7%. In clinical trials of fenofibric acid monotherapy, dyspepsia was reported in 3.7% of patients. When used in combination with statins, the incidence of dyspepsia ranged from 2.7—4.7%. In clinical trials of fenofibric acid monotherapy, nausea/vomiting was reported in 4.3% of patients. When used in combination with statins, the incidence of nausea/vomiting ranged from 3.5—5.5%. In fenofibrate trials (at a dose equivalent to 135 mg fenofibric acid), the incidence was 2.3%. During fenofibrate trials (at a dose equivalent to 135 mg fenofibric acid), the incidence of abdominal pain was 4.6%.Nervous system effects have been reported with fenofibric acid therapy. In clinical trials of fenofibric acid monotherapy, headache was reported in 12.7% of patients. When used in combination with statins, the incidence of headache was approximately 11.9—13.1%. In fenofibrate trials (at a dose equivalent to 135 mg fenofibric acid), the incidence of headache was 3.2%. Dizziness was reported in 4.1% of patients during fenofibric acid monotherapy trials. When used in combination with statins, the incidence of dizziness was approximately 4%. Fatigue was reported in 2% of patients during clinical trials of fenofibric acid monotherapy. When used in combination with statins, the incidence of fatigue increased to 2.7—3.3%. Insomnia was reported in 3% of patients during a long-term extension study of fenofibric acid coadministered with statins for up to 64 weeks.Fenofibric acid has been occasionally associated with myositis and myopathy. In clinical trials of fenofibric acid monotherapy, myalgia was reported in 3.3% of patients. When used in combination with statins, the incidence of myalgia ranged from 3.1—3.5% compared to 4.7—6.1% of patients treated with statin monotherapy. Fenofibric acid is the active metabolite of fenofibrate. On rare occasions ( 5 times the upper limit of normal occurred in no patients treated with fenofibric acid monotherapy and 0.2—1.2% of patients treated with fenofibric acid coadministered with statins and in 0.4—1.3% of patients treated with statin monotherapy. There is no assurance that periodic CPK concentrations will prevent the occurrence of myopathy or renal dysfunction. Patients on fenofibric acid should be instructed to report any complaints of myalgia, tenderness, or myasthenia to their health care professional immediately. CPK determinations and renal function assessment, including serum creatinine, should be performed. Myopathy should be considered in any patient with diffuse myalgias, muscle tenderness or weakness, and/or marked elevations of creatine phosphokinase levels. Patients should be advised to report promptly unexplained musculoskeletal pain, tenderness, or muscle weakness, particularly if accompanied by malaise or fever. CPK levels should be assessed in patients reporting these symptoms, and fenofibric acid and statin therapy should be discontinued if markedly elevated CPK levels occur or myopathy or myositis is diagnosed. In addition, reversible elevations in serum creatinine have been reported in patients receiving fenofibric acid monotherapy and in combination with statins. These elevations stabilized over time and did not increase further with long-term therapy. Discontinuation of fenofibric acid resulted in a return to baseline. The clinical significance is unknown. Regular monitoring of renal function in patients taking fenofibric acid is prudent.Back pain has been reported during fenofibric acid monotherapy at an incidence of 6.3%. When used in combination with statins, the incidence of back pain ranged from 4.1—6.1%. During fenofibrate trials (at a dose equivalent to 135 mg fenofibric acid), the incidence of back pain was 3.4%. In clinical trials of fenofibric acid monotherapy, arthralgia was reported in 3.9% of patients. When used in combination with statins, the incidence of arthralgia ranged from 3.5—4.3%. Muscle spasms were reported in 3 times the upper limit of normal occurred in 1.2% and 0.5% of patients, respectively. Discontinuation of therapy resulted in a return to normal concentrations of ALT and AST. Fenofibric acid is the active metabolite of fenofibrate. In fenofibrate trials (at a dose equivalent to 135 mg fenofibric acid), increased AST and ALT concentrations occurred in 3.4% and 3%, respectively. Increases in liver enzymes associated with fenofibrate may be dose related. In an 8-week dose-ranging study of fenofibrate, the incidence of ALT or AST elevations >= 3 times the upper limit of normal was 13% in patients receiving dosages equivalent to 90—135 mg fenofibric acid; no reports of ALT or AST elevations occurred in patients receiving dosages equivalent to = 3 times the upper limit of normal should result in discontinuation of fenofibric acid therapy.Fenofibric acid is the active metabolite of fenofibrate. Mild to moderate anemia and leukopenia have been reported in patients following initiation of fenofibrate therapy. The decreases in hemoglobin, hematocrit, and white blood cell counts generally plateau after a few weeks of treatment. Extremely rare reports of cases of eosinophilia, thrombocytopenia, and agranulocytosis have been reported during post marketing surveillance of fenofibrate. Because of the potential severity of rare blood dyscrasias, periodic blood counts may be warranted during the first 12 months of therapy with fenofibric acid.Pancreatitis has been reported in patients taking fenofibrate, fenofibric acid, gemfibrozil, and clofibrate. This occurrence may represent a failure of efficacy in patients with severe hypertriglyceridemia, a direct drug effect, or a secondary phenomenon mediated through biliary tract stone or sludge formation with obstruction of the common bile duct.Hypertension was reported in > 3% of patients during a long-term extension study of fenofibric acid coadministered with statins for up to 64 weeks.Fenofibric acid is the active metabolite of fenofibrate. In the FIELD trial, venothromboembolic disease were observed at higher rates in the fenofibrate group compared to the placebo group. Deep vein thrombosis was reported in 48 (1%) patients in the placebo group and 67 (1%) in the fenofibrate group (p=0.074); pulmonary embolism (PE) was reported in 32 (0.7%) patients in the placebo group compared to 53 (1%) in the fenofibrate group (p=0.022). In the Coronary Drug Project, suspected fatal or nonfatal PE or thrombophlebitis occurred more frequently in the clofibrate group compared to placebo (5.2% vs. 3.3% at five years; p < 0.01).
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    abdominal pain, cholecystitis, cholelithiasis, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, nausea, vomiting
    General Information
    Gastrointestinal side effects, such as dyspepsia, constipation, nausea, abdominal pain, diarrhea, and vomiting, are among the most commonly reported adverse effects reported with fenofibric acid and generally occur in 3% to 5% of individuals. In fenofibrate trials (at a dose equivalent to 135 mg fenofibric acid delayed-release capsules and 105 mg fenofibric acid tablets), the incidence of constipation and abdominal pain are 2% and 5%, respectively. In clinical trials of fenofibric acid monotherapy, diarrhea, and dyspepsia were reported in 3% or more of individuals. Cholelithiasis and cholecystitis can potentially occur during fenofibric acid therapy as a result of increased cholesterol excretion into the bile. If cholelithiasis is suspected, gallbladder studies are indicated. Discontinue fenofibric acid if gallstones are found during examination.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      cholelithiasis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    pancreatitis
    General Information
    Pancreatitis has been reported in patients taking fenofibric acid and other fibrates. Pancreatitis may represent a failure of efficacy in patients with severe hypertriglyceridemia, a direct drug effect, or a secondary phenomenon mediated through biliary tract stone or sludge formation with obstruction of the common bile duct. Markedly elevated levels of serum triglycerides (e.g., greater than 2,000 mg/dL) may increase the risk of developing pancreatitis. The effect of fenofibric acid therapy on reducing this risk has not been adequately studied.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      pancreatitis
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    cirrhosis, elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatitis, hepatotoxicity, jaundice
    General Information
    Hepatotoxicity or drug-induced liver injury (DILI), including liver transplantation and death, have been reported with postmarketing use of fenofibric acid. DILI occurred within the first weeks to several months after starting fenofibric acid therapy and was reversible upon discontinuation in some cases. DILI has been characterized as hepatocellular, chronic active, and cholestatic hepatitis, as well as, cirrhosis in association with chronic active hepatitis. Reported signs and symptoms of DILI include dark urine, abnormal stool, jaundice, malaise, abdominal pain, muscle pain, weight loss, itching, and nausea. Many individuals had concurrent elevations of total bilirubin, serum alanine transaminase (ALT), and aspartate transaminase (AST). Elevated hepatic enzymes (reported as abnormal liver function tests) were reported in 8% of individuals (vs. 1% placebo) during clinical trials of fenofibrate (at a dose equivalent to 135 mg fenofibric acid delayed-release capsules and 105 mg fenofibric acid tablets). Specifically, elevated ALT was reported in 3% of individuals (vs. 2% placebo) and elevated AST was reported in 3% of individuals (vs. 1% placebo). In a pooled analysis of 3 clinical trials, increases in ALT or AST of 3 times the upper limit of normal or greater on 2 consecutive occasions were reported in 1.9% and 0.2% of individuals on fenofibric acid 135 mg delayed-release capsules or placebo therapy, respectively. In a pooled analysis of 10 placebo-controlled trials, elevations of ALT of more than 3 times the upper limit of normal occurred in 5.3% of individuals taking fenofibrate versus 1.1% of individuals taking placebo. In an 8-week study, the incidence of ALT or AST elevations to 3 times the upper limit of normal or greater was seen in 13% of individuals receiving intermediate or maximum fenofibrate dosages and was 0% in those individuals receiving lower fenofibrate dosages or placebo. Persistent elevations of 3 times the upper limit of normal or more should result in discontinuation of fenofibric acid therapy. Do not restart fenofibric acid therapy in these patients if there is no alternative explanation for the liver injury. Cirrhosis, hepatitis, and increased total bilirubin have been reported with postmarketing use of fenofibric acid.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hepatotoxicity
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      jaundice
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      cirrhosis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hepatitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS), eosinophilia, exfoliative dermatitis, fever, lichen planus-like eruption, photosensitivity, rash, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria
    General Information
    Acute hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis/anaphylactoid reactions and angioedema, have been reported with postmarketing use of fenofibrate; some cases have been life-threatening requiring emergency treatment. Delayed hypersensitivity reactions, such as severe cutaneous adverse drug reactions (SCAR), Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, and drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS), have also been reported with postmarketing use of fenofibrate. These serious, delayed hypersensitivity reactions occurred within days to weeks of starting fenofibrate therapy. The cases of DRESS were associated with cutaneous reactions (e.g., rash or exfoliative dermatitis) and a combination of eosinophilia, fever, and systemic organ involvement (renal, hepatic, or respiratory). Urticaria and rash were reported in 1.1% and 1.4% of fenofibrate (at a dose equivalent to 135 mg fenofibric acid delayed-release capsules and 105 mg fenofibric acid tablets) patients, respectively, compared to 0% and 0.8% of placebo patients, respectively. If SCAR is suspected, discontinue fenofibric acid and treat individuals appropriately. Photosensitivity has been reported with postmarketing use of fenofibrate. Photosensitivity occurred within days to months of starting fenofibrate therapy and presented as erythematous, papulovesicular, eczematous eruptions, lichen planus-like eruption (lichenoid), or sunburn-like eruptions. The photosensitizing effect of fenofibrate may be due to the presence of benzophenone, double benzene rings connected by a ketone group. Benzophenones, photoexcited structures, mediate phototoxic reactions through the absorption of UV light and induction of electronic excitation. Some individuals who experienced fenofibrate photosensitivity reactions reported a prior photosensitivity reaction to ketoprofen. Cross-photosensitization may occur between fenofibrate and other benzophenone-containing medications or products, such as ketoprofen or certain sunscreens.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      photosensitivity
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      Stevens-Johnson syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      toxic epidermal necrolysis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS)
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      eosinophilia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      exfoliative dermatitis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      lichen planus-like eruption
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    arthralgia, asthenia, elevated creatine kinase, malaise, myalgia, myopathy, rhabdomyolysis, weakness
    General Information
    Myalgia, muscle spasms, and rhabdomyolysis have been reported with fenofibric acid therapy. In clinical trials of fenofibric acid monotherapy, arthralgia, myalgia and pain in the extremity were reported in 3% or more of individuals. Elevated creatine kinase (CK) occurred in 3% of individuals treated with fenofibrate monotherapy (at a dose equivalent to 135 mg fenofibric acid delayed-release capsules and 105 mg fenofibric acid tablets) compared to 1% of individuals treated with placebo during clinical trials. Rhabdomyolysis, muscle spasms, and asthenia have occurred with postmarketing use of fenofibric acid. Advise individuals to promptly report any unexplained muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness, especially if accompanied by malaise or fever. Discontinue fenofibric acid therapy if CK concentrations are markedly elevated or myopathy is suspected or diagnosed.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      elevated creatine kinase
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      malaise
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      weakness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      rhabdomyolysis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      myopathy
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      myalgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
    Headline
    agranulocytosis, anemia, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia
    General Information
    Mild to moderate anemia and leukopenia have been reported in patients following initiation of fenofibrate therapy. The decreases in hemoglobin, hematocrit, and white blood cell counts generally plateau with long-term treatment. Thrombocytopenia and agranulocytosis have also been reported with fenofibrate therapy. Periodic monitoring of red and white blood cell counts is recommended during the first 12 months of fenofibric acid therapy.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      agranulocytosis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      anemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      leukopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    pulmonary embolism, thrombosis
    General Information
    Pulmonary embolism (PE) and deep venous thrombosis (DVT) have been reported in fenofibrate clinical trials. In the FIELD trial, PE and DVT were observed at higher rates in the fenofibrate group compared to the placebo group. Deep vein thrombosis was reported in 48 (1%) patients in the placebo group and 67 (1%) in the fenofibrate group (p = 0.074); pulmonary embolism (PE) was reported in 32 (0.7%) patients in the placebo group compared to 53 (1%) in the fenofibrate group (p = 0.022). In the Coronary Drug Project, suspected fatal or nonfatal PE or thrombophlebitis occurred more frequently in the clofibrate group compared to placebo (5.2% vs. 3.3% at five years; p less than 0.01).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      pulmonary embolism
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      thrombosis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    dizziness, headache
    General Information
    Nervous system effects have been reported with fenofibric acid therapy. During double-blind, placebo-controlled trials, headache was reported in 3.2% of patients compared to 2.7% of those receiving placebo. Dizziness was reported in 3% or more of patients during fenofibric acid monotherapy trials. When used in combination with statins, the incidence of dizziness was approximately 4%.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    infection, interstitial lung disease, pharyngitis, rhinitis, sinusitis
    General Information
    Fenofibric acid may cause rhinitis. Among 439 fenofibrate recipients (at a dose equivalent to 135 mg fenofibric acid delayed-release capsules and 105 mg fenofibric acid tablets), 2.3% had rhinitis and 6.2% had a respiratory disorder compared with 1.1% and 5.5%, respectively, of placebo recipients. Naso-pharyngitis, sinusitis, and upper respiratory tract infection were reported in 3% or more of patients receiving fenofibric acid monotherapy in clinical trials. Interstitial lung disease has been reported with postmarketing use of fenofibric acid.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      pharyngitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      rhinitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      sinusitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      interstitial lung disease
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    decreased HDL cholesterol (HDL-C) concentration
    General Information
    Severely decreased HDL cholesterol (HDL-C) concentration, to as low as 2 mg/dL, has been reported in diabetic and non-diabetic patients initiated on fibrate therapy. The decrease in HDL-C is mirrored by a decrease in apolipoprotein A1 and may occur within 2 weeks or years after initiation of the fibrate. The clinical significance of this decrease is unknown. HDL-C remains depressed as long as fibrate therapy is continued; however, withdrawal of the fibrate results in a rapid and sustained increase in HDL-C. Monitor HDL-C concentrations within the first few months after initiation of fenofibric acid. Discontinue fenofibric acid if HDL-C is severely depressed and continue monitoring until HDL-C has returned to baseline. Do not restart fibrate therapy in patients who have had a severe decrease in HDL-C.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      decreased HDL cholesterol (HDL-C) concentration
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    renal failure
    General Information
    Renal failure has been reported with postmarketing use of fenofibric acid. Elevations in serum creatinine have been reported with fenofibric acid. In a pooled analysis of 3 clinical studies, 0.8% of patients in the fenofibric acid delayed-release capsule group experienced a creatinine greater than 2 mg/dL. The elevations in serum creatinine generally remained stable with long-term use with no evidence of continued increases in serum creatinine levels. Elevations in serum creatinine tended to return to baseline following fenofibric acid discontinuation. It is recommended to monitor renal function in patients with renal impairment. Consider renal function monitoring in patients at risk for renal insufficiency, such as the elderly and those with diabetes.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      renal failure
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    vitamin B12 deficiency
    General Information
    Fenofibric acid impairs the absorption of vitamin B12 and may lead to vitamin B12 deficiency. Consider supplementation of vitamin B12 during fenofibric acid therapy.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      vitamin B12 deficiency
      Severity
      Moderate

Description
  Text
  Fenofibric acid is an oral fibric acid antilipemic agent; it is the active metabolite of fenofibrate. Fenofibric acid is indicated for the treatment of severe hypertriglyceridemia (triglycerides 500 mg/dL or greater) to reduce the risk of pancreatitis. Guidelines indicate that fenofibric acid may be utilized as add-on therapy for individuals with persistent moderate to severe hypertriglyceridemia (150 to 499 mg/dL and greater than 500 mg/dL, respectively) following optimization of LDL-cholesterol lowering statin therapy. Due to a lower risk of myopathy and drug interactions, fenofibric acid is preferred over gemfibrozil. While fenofibric acid is FDA-approved for the treatment of primary hyperlipidemia or mixed dyslipidemia, its impact on atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) risk has not been established; thus, it is typically reserved for patients severe hypertriglyceridemia despite lifestyle modification, dietary changes, and lipid lowering therapy or as an alternative to icosapent ethyl (e.g., patients without access to icosapent ethyl). Insufficient data are available to determine the impact of fenofibric acid therapy on the risk of coronary heart disease morbidity and mortality and non-cardiovascular mortality, particularly in patients receiving statin therapy and those with type 2 diabetes mellitus. A reduction in ASCVD risk has been observed in individuals with elevated triglycerides and low HDL-C concentrations. Icosapent ethyl is the preferred adjunctive therapy in individuals with persistently elevated triglycerides who require additional ASCVD risk reduction.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Fenofibric acid is a synthetic ligand for peroxisome proliferator activated receptor-alpha (PPAR-alpha). The PPARs are part of the nuclear hormone superfamily and are ligand-activated transcription factors involved in many metabolic effects, such as lipid and glucose metabolism. PPAR-alpha is expressed in tissues involved in the metabolism of fatty acids, specifically the liver, heart, kidney and muscle. Fenofibric acid activates PPAR-alpha thereby increasing lipoprotein lipase (LPL) activity and decreasing production of apoprotein C-III (apo-C-III), an inhibitor of lipoprotein lipase. As a result, this increases lipolysis of triglycerides from chylomicrons and very low-density lipoproteins (VLDL) and decreases plasma concentrations of triglyceride-rich particles. Triglyceride reduction alters the size and composition of LDL, changing it from small, dense particles to large buoyant particles that have a greater affinity for cholesterol receptors and are catabolized quicker. In addition, PPAR-alpha activation increases apoprotein A-I, apoprotein A-II, and high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol. Fenofibric acid also reduces serum uric acid levels by increasing urinary excretion of uric acid.
 
Pharmacodynamics: Fenofibric acid, the active metabolite of fenofibrate, produces reductions in total cholesterol, total triglycerides, and triglyceride rich Lipoprotein (VLDL) in individuals with severe hypertriglyceridemia.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Delayed-release capsules (e.g., Trilipix): Fenofibric acid delayed-release capsules are well absorbed, with an absolute bioavailability of approximately 81%. Under fasting conditions, the peak plasma concentrations occur within 4 to 5 hours after administration of a single oral dose. There are no significant differences in Cmax and AUC following administration of a single 135 mg dose under fasting and fed conditions; thus, fenofibric acid may be administered without regard to meals. When administered under fed conditions, plasma concentrations of a single fenofibric acid 135 mg delayed-release capsule are equivalent to concentrations of a single fenofibrate micronized 200 mg capsule.
 
Tablets (e.g., Fibricor): The absolute bioavailability of fenofibric acid tablets has not been determined. Peak plasma concentrations occur approximately 2.5 hours after administration. Administration of either three 35 mg tablets or one 105 mg tablet result in comparable plasma concentrations. Compared to administration under fasting conditions, Cmax decreased by 35% and AUC was unchanged following administration of fenofibric tablets with a high-fat meal; this reduction is not considered to be clinically significant. Fenofibric acid tablets may be administered without regard to meals. When administered under fasting conditions, the extent and rate of absorption of fenofibric acid 105 mg tablet is equivalent to fenofibrate 145 mg tablet (Tricor).
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Fenofibric acid has not been studied in individuals with hepatic impairment.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    The pharmacokinetics of fenofibric acid are altered in individuals with mild, moderate, and severe renal impairment. Compared to healthy individuals, those with severe renal impairment (estimated glomerular filtration rate [eGFR] less than 30 mL/minute/1.73 m2) have a 2.7-fold increase in exposure and accumulation of fenofibric acid during chronic dosing compared to healthy subjects. Individuals with mild to moderate renal impairment (eGFR 30 to 59 mL/minute/1.73 m2) have a similar exposure to fenofibric acid but experience an increase in the half-life compared to healthy subjects. Fenofibric acid is not removed by hemodialysis. Fenofibric acid is contraindicated in individuals with severe renal impairment, including those receiving dialysis. Dose reduction is required in patients with mild or moderate renal impairment.
    Name
    Pediatrics
    Description
    Fenofibric acid pharmacokinetics have not been studies in the pediatric population.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Following a single oral dose of fenofibrate, oral clearance of fenofibric acid is 1.2 L/hour for elderly individuals (77 to 87 years of age) and 1.1 L/hour for young adults. Thus, elderly and young adults may use an equivalent fenofibric acid dose.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    Gender has not been shown to have an effect on the pharmacokinetics of fenofibric acid.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    While the influence of race on fenofibric acid pharmacokinetics has not been studied, it is not metabolized by enzymes known for exhibiting inter-ethnic variability.
  Text
  Fenofibric acid, the active metabolite of fenofibrate, is administered orally. Plasma concentrations of fenofibric acid reach steady state after 8 to 9 days and steady state concentrations are approximately double those following a single fenofibric acid dose. In normal and dyslipidemic patients, fenofibric acid is extensively protein bound (99%). Fenofibric acid is primarily conjugated with glucuronic acid; however, a small portion is reduced at the carbonyl moiety to a benzhydrol metabolite, which subsequently undergoes conjugation to with glucuronic acid. Primary route of excretion is via the urine as fenofibric acid and fenofibric acid glucuronide. The elimination half-life of fenofibric acid is 20 hours.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes: CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2A6
Fenofibric acid is a weak inhibitor of CYP2C8, CYP2C19, and CYP2A6, and a mild-to-moderate inhibitor of CYP2C9 at therapeutic concentrations. Fenofibric acid is not metabolized by the CYP isoenzymes.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Delayed-Release Capsules (e.g. Trilipix)
Swallow capsules whole. Do not open, crush, dissolve, or chew the capsules.
 
Tablets (e.g. Fibricor)
Swallow tablets whole. Do not crush, dissolve, or chew tablets.
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Fenofibric acid delayed-release capsules or tablets may be taken without regard to meals.
Take at least 1 hour before or 4 to 6 hours after a bile acid binding resin to avoid impeding absorption.
Missed dose: If a dose is missed, advise individuals not to take an extra dose. Resume treatment with the next dose.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    135 mg/day PO of fenofibric acid delayed-release capsules (TriLipix); 105 mg/day PO fenofibric acid tablets (Fibricor).
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    135 mg/day PO of fenofibric acid delayed-release capsules (TriLipix); 105 mg/day PO fenofibric acid tablets (Fibricor).
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Contraindicated in patients with active liver disease, including those with unexplained persistent liver function abnormalities.
  Renal Impairment
  eGFR 60 mL/minute/1.73 m2 and greater: No dosage adjustment is necessary.
eGFR 30 to 59 mL/minute/1.73 m2: Initially, 35 mg fenofibric acid tablets (e.g., Fibricor) or 45 mg fenofibric acid delayed-release capsules (e.g., TriLipix) PO once daily. Do not increase dosage until the effects of the initial dosage on renal function and serum lipid concentrations have been fully evaluated.
eGFR less than 30 mL/minute/1.73 m2: Contraindicated.
 
Intermittent hemodialysis
Contraindicated in individuals undergoing dialysis.
