=== Zuranolone (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5478)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Zuranolone is the first oral medication indicated to treat postpartum depression (PPD) in adults and is a neuroactive steroid gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) A receptor positive modulator.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 50 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): anxiety, asthenia, confusion, dizziness, drowsiness, fatigue, lethargy, memory impairment, vertigo, infection, nasal congestion, pharyngitis, hypoesthesia, myalgia, myoclonia, tremor

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Zuranolone use is associated with CNS depression (e.g., somnolence, confusion, dizziness, and gait disturbance); the prescribing label contains a boxed warning for this effect. The boxed warning states that zuranolone recipients should abstain from driving or operating machinery or performing...

Brand Names
  - ZURZUVAE

Dosage Forms
  - ZURZUVAE 20mg Capsule
  - ZURZUVAE 25mg Capsule
  - ZURZUVAE 30mg Capsule

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        50 mg PO once daily in the evening, with a fatty meal or food, for 14 days. If the patient experiences CNS depression during the 14-day course, the dose may be reduced to 40 mg PO once daily in the evening. Safety and efficacy have not been established beyond 14 days of use. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. As treatment was limited to postpartum individuals with severe symptoms in pre-approval clinical studies, the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) recommends use of zuranolone for severe depression in the postpartum period.
    Heading
    For the treatment of postpartum depression

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery
    General Information
    Zuranolone use is associated with CNS depression (e.g., somnolence, confusion, dizziness, and gait disturbance); the prescribing label contains a boxed warning for this effect. The boxed warning states that zuranolone recipients should abstain from driving or operating machinery or performing activities requiring coordination and concentration for at least 12 hours after taking each dose during the 14-day treatment course. People may not be able to assess their own driving competence or the degree of impairment caused by zuranolone. If CNS depressant effects develop, consider dosage reduction or discontinuation. Avoid the use of alcohol and other CNS depressants with zuranolone due to the risk of additive sedation and CNS depression. If the use of a concurrent CNS depressant or a drug which might reduce zuranolone metabolism is unavoidable, consider dosage reduction of zuranolone.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    suicidal ideation
    General Information
    All patients with a history of suicidal ideation or behaviors and those with a prominence of suicidal ideation have an increased risk for suicidal ideation or attempts and should be closely monitored during zuranolone treatment. Consider changing the therapeutic regimen, including the discontinuation of zuranolone, in patients with worsening depression or emergent suicidality. A pooled analysis of placebo-controlled trials including approximately 77,000 adults and 4,500 pediatric patients showed that the incidence of suicidal thoughts and behaviors in pediatric patients and young adults (up to 24 years of age) was greater than in placebo-treated patients for most antidepressants studied (SSRIs and others). Because zuranolone does not directly affect monoaminergic systems and there is a low number of exposures to zuranolone, the risk of suicidal ideation with zuranolone treatment is unknown.
    Headline
    people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Based on findings from animal studies, zuranolone may cause fetal harm; inform people who may become pregnant of this reproductive risk. Contraception requirements should be discussed before initiating treatment with zuranolone. Patients who may become pregnant should be advised to use effective contraception throughout zuranolone treatment and for 1 week after the final dose.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use zuranolone with caution during breast-feeding. Available data from a clinical lactation study (n = 14) indicate that zuranolone is present in low concentrations in human milk. The subjects were treated with zuranolone 30 mg/day for 5 days. At steady-state, the calculated maximum relative infant dose was less than 1%. The daily infant dose was low (approximately 0.0013 mg/kg/day), reflecting a mean infant dose of 0.357% compared to the maternal dose. Concentrations in breast milk were below the level of quantification limit by 4 to 6 days after the last dose. There are no data on the effects of zuranolone on a breastfed infant and limited data on the effects on milk production. The developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding should be considered along with the clinical need for zuranolone and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from zuranolone or from the underlying maternal condition.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Based on animal studies, zuranolone may cause fetal harm when administered during pregnancy. In rodent studies following exposure during gestation or throughout gestation and lactation, adverse effects on development (such as fetal malformations, embryofetal and offspring mortality, and growth deficits) were observed. In mice, zuranolone administration during organogenesis resulted in developmental toxicity, including decreased fetal body weight, reduced skeletal ossification, and fetal malformations (e.g., cleft palate) at 100 mg/kg/day (4 times the AUC exposure at the maximum recommended human dose [MRHD]). The no observed adverse effect level (NOAEL) for embryofetal development was 30 mg/kg/day, with maternal exposures approximately 1.5 times that in humans at the MRHD. In addition, neuronal death was observed in rats exposed to zuranolone during a period of brain development that in humans begins during the third trimester of pregnancy and continues during the first few years after birth. Available data on zuranolone use during pregnancy from the clinical development program are insufficient to evaluate a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. People who become pregnant while taking zuranolone should be advised of the potential fetal risk. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in people exposed to antidepressants during pregnancy, including zuranolone. Health care providers are encouraged to register treated patients by calling the National Pregnancy Registry for Antidepressants at 1-844-405-6185 or visiting online at https://womensmentalhealth.org/research/pregnancyregistry/antidepressants/.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Based on animal studies, zuranolone may cause fetal harm when administered during pregnancy. In rodent studies following exposure during gestation or throughout gestation and lactation, adverse effects on development (such as fetal malformations, embryofetal and offspring mortality, and growth deficits) were observed. In mice, zuranolone administration during organogenesis resulted in developmental toxicity, including decreased fetal body weight, reduced skeletal ossification, and fetal malformations (e.g., cleft palate) at 100 mg/kg/day (4 times the AUC exposure at the maximum recommended human dose [MRHD]). The no observed adverse effect level (NOAEL) for embryofetal development was 30 mg/kg/day, with maternal exposures approximately 1.5 times that in humans at the MRHD. In addition, neuronal death was observed in rats exposed to zuranolone during a period of brain development that in humans begins during the third trimester of pregnancy and continues during the first few years after birth. Available data on zuranolone use during pregnancy from the clinical development program are insufficient to evaluate a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. People who become pregnant while taking zuranolone should be advised of the potential fetal risk. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in people exposed to antidepressants during pregnancy, including zuranolone. Health care providers are encouraged to register treated patients by calling the National Pregnancy Registry for Antidepressants at 1-844-405-6185 or visiting online at https://womensmentalhealth.org/research/pregnancyregistry/antidepressants/.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use zuranolone with caution during breast-feeding. Available data from a clinical lactation study (n = 14) indicate that zuranolone is present in low concentrations in human milk. The subjects were treated with zuranolone 30 mg/day for 5 days. At steady-state, the calculated maximum relative infant dose was less than 1%. The daily infant dose was low (approximately 0.0013 mg/kg/day), reflecting a mean infant dose of 0.357% compared to the maternal dose. Concentrations in breast milk were below the level of quantification limit by 4 to 6 days after the last dose. There are no data on the effects of zuranolone on a breastfed infant and limited data on the effects on milk production. The developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding should be considered along with the clinical need for zuranolone and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from zuranolone or from the underlying maternal condition.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as zuranolone. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as zuranolone. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Acetaminophen; diphenhydrAMINE: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as zuranolone. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as zuranolone. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Acetaminophen; Pamabrom; Pyrilamine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Adagrasib: (Major) Decrease the zuranolone dose to 30 mg once daily and monitor for zuranolone-related adverse effects if concomitant use with adagrasib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase zuranolone exposure and the risk for zuranolone-related adverse effects. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zuranolone overall exposure by 1.62-fold.
ALFentanil: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as zuranolone. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
ALPRAZolam: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of multiple sedating agents, such as zuranolone and tricyclic antidepressants, may result in additive CNS depression. Monitor for additive CNS depressant effects and consider taking additional steps to minimize the risk for over sedation, such as avoidance or a downward dose adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Amobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zuranolone and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease zuranolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy; use may also increase the risk for CNS depression. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate, barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers, and both medications have been associated with CNS depression. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced zuranolone overall exposure by 85%.
Amoxapine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Decrease the zuranolone dose to 30 mg once daily and monitor for zuranolone-related adverse effects if concomitant use with clarithromycin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase zuranolone exposure and the risk for zuranolone-related adverse effects. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zuranolone overall exposure by 1.62-fold.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zuranolone and apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease zuranolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced zuranolone overall exposure by 85%.
Apomorphine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
ARIPiprazole: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Asenapine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zuranolone and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease zuranolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy; use may also increase the risk for CNS depression. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate, barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers, and both medications have been associated with CNS depression. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced zuranolone overall exposure by 85%.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as zuranolone. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as zuranolone. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Atazanavir: (Major) Decrease the zuranolone dose to 30 mg once daily and monitor for zuranolone-related adverse effects if concomitant use with atazanavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase zuranolone exposure and the risk for zuranolone-related adverse effects. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zuranolone overall exposure by 1.62-fold.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Decrease the zuranolone dose to 30 mg once daily and monitor for zuranolone-related adverse effects if concomitant use with atazanavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase zuranolone exposure and the risk for zuranolone-related adverse effects. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zuranolone overall exposure by 1.62-fold. (Major) Decrease the zuranolone dose to 30 mg once daily and monitor for zuranolone-related adverse effects if concomitant use with cobicistat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase zuranolone exposure and the risk for zuranolone-related adverse effects. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zuranolone overall exposure by 1.62-fold.
Atropine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Azelastine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Azelastine; Fluticasone: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Baclofen: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Barbiturates: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zuranolone and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease zuranolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy; use may also increase the risk for CNS depression. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate, barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers, and both medications have been associated with CNS depression. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced zuranolone overall exposure by 85%.
Belladonna; Opium: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as zuranolone. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as zuranolone. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Brexpiprazole: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Brompheniramine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Buprenorphine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zuranolone and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease zuranolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy; use may also increase the risk for CNS depression. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate, barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers, and both medications have been associated with CNS depression. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced zuranolone overall exposure by 85%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zuranolone and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease zuranolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy; use may also increase the risk for CNS depression. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate, barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers, and both medications have been associated with CNS depression. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced zuranolone overall exposure by 85%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as zuranolone. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zuranolone and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease zuranolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy; use may also increase the risk for CNS depression. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate, barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers, and both medications have been associated with CNS depression. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced zuranolone overall exposure by 85%.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as zuranolone. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zuranolone and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease zuranolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy; use may also increase the risk for CNS depression. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate, barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers, and both medications have been associated with CNS depression. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced zuranolone overall exposure by 85%.
Butorphanol: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Calcium, Magnesium, Potassium, Sodium Oxybates: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Cannabidiol: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Capsaicin; Metaxalone: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zuranolone and carbamazepine. Concurrent use may decrease zuranolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate and carbamazepine is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced zuranolone overall exposure by 85%.
Carbidopa; Levodopa: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Carbidopa; Levodopa; Entacapone: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Carbinoxamine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Cariprazine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Carisoprodol: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as zuranolone. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Cenobamate: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Ceritinib: (Major) Decrease the zuranolone dose to 30 mg once daily and monitor for zuranolone-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ceritinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase zuranolone exposure and the risk for zuranolone-related adverse effects. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate and ceritinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zuranolone overall exposure by 1.62-fold.
Cetirizine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Chlophedianol; Dexbrompheniramine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Chloramphenicol: (Major) Decrease the zuranolone dose to 30 mg once daily and monitor for zuranolone-related adverse effects if concomitant use with chloramphenicol is necessary. Concomitant use may increase zuranolone exposure and the risk for zuranolone-related adverse effects. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate and chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zuranolone overall exposure by 1.62-fold.
Chlorcyclizine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
chlordiazePOXIDE: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm. (Moderate) Concomitant use of multiple sedating agents, such as zuranolone and tricyclic antidepressants, may result in additive CNS depression. Monitor for additive CNS depressant effects and consider taking additional steps to minimize the risk for over sedation, such as avoidance or a downward dose adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Chlorpheniramine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as zuranolone. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as zuranolone. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
chlorproMAZINE: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Chlorzoxazone: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Decrease the zuranolone dose to 30 mg once daily and monitor for zuranolone-related adverse effects if concomitant use with clarithromycin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase zuranolone exposure and the risk for zuranolone-related adverse effects. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zuranolone overall exposure by 1.62-fold.
Clemastine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
cloBAZam: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of multiple sedating agents, such as zuranolone and tricyclic antidepressants, may result in additive CNS depression. Monitor for additive CNS depressant effects and consider taking additional steps to minimize the risk for over sedation, such as avoidance or a downward dose adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
clonazePAM: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
cloNIDine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Clorazepate: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
cloZAPine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
CNS Depressant Medications (selected non-opioid): (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Cobicistat: (Major) Decrease the zuranolone dose to 30 mg once daily and monitor for zuranolone-related adverse effects if concomitant use with cobicistat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase zuranolone exposure and the risk for zuranolone-related adverse effects. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zuranolone overall exposure by 1.62-fold.
Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as zuranolone. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as zuranolone. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as zuranolone. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as zuranolone. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as zuranolone. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as zuranolone. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Cyclobenzaprine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Cyproheptadine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Dantrolene: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Darunavir: (Major) Decrease the zuranolone dose to 30 mg once daily and monitor for zuranolone-related adverse effects if concomitant use with darunavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase zuranolone exposure and the risk for zuranolone-related adverse effects. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zuranolone overall exposure by 1.62-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Decrease the zuranolone dose to 30 mg once daily and monitor for zuranolone-related adverse effects if concomitant use with cobicistat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase zuranolone exposure and the risk for zuranolone-related adverse effects. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zuranolone overall exposure by 1.62-fold. (Major) Decrease the zuranolone dose to 30 mg once daily and monitor for zuranolone-related adverse effects if concomitant use with darunavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase zuranolone exposure and the risk for zuranolone-related adverse effects. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zuranolone overall exposure by 1.62-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Decrease the zuranolone dose to 30 mg once daily and monitor for zuranolone-related adverse effects if concomitant use with cobicistat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase zuranolone exposure and the risk for zuranolone-related adverse effects. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zuranolone overall exposure by 1.62-fold. (Major) Decrease the zuranolone dose to 30 mg once daily and monitor for zuranolone-related adverse effects if concomitant use with darunavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase zuranolone exposure and the risk for zuranolone-related adverse effects. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zuranolone overall exposure by 1.62-fold.
Desipramine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of multiple sedating agents, such as zuranolone and tricyclic antidepressants, may result in additive CNS depression. Monitor for additive CNS depressant effects and consider taking additional steps to minimize the risk for over sedation, such as avoidance or a downward dose adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Deutetrabenazine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Dexbrompheniramine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Dexchlorpheniramine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
diazePAM: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Difelikefalin: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
dimenhyDRINATE: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
diphenhydrAMINE: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Doxepin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of multiple sedating agents, such as zuranolone and tricyclic antidepressants, may result in additive CNS depression. Monitor for additive CNS depressant effects and consider taking additional steps to minimize the risk for over sedation, such as avoidance or a downward dose adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Doxylamine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Doxylamine; Pyridoxine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
droNABinol: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
droPERidol: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Decrease the zuranolone dose to 30 mg once daily and monitor for zuranolone-related adverse effects if concomitant use with cobicistat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase zuranolone exposure and the risk for zuranolone-related adverse effects. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zuranolone overall exposure by 1.62-fold.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Decrease the zuranolone dose to 30 mg once daily and monitor for zuranolone-related adverse effects if concomitant use with cobicistat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase zuranolone exposure and the risk for zuranolone-related adverse effects. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zuranolone overall exposure by 1.62-fold.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zuranolone and encorafenib. Concurrent use may decrease zuranolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate and encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced zuranolone overall exposure by 85%.
Ensitrelvir: (Major) Decrease the zuranolone dose to 30 mg once daily and monitor for zuranolone-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ensitrelvir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase zuranolone exposure and the risk for zuranolone-related adverse effects. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zuranolone overall exposure by 1.62-fold.
Entacapone: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zuranolone and enzalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease zuranolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced zuranolone overall exposure by 85%.
Estazolam: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Eszopiclone: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Ethanol: (Major) Advise patients to avoid alcohol consumption while taking CNS depressants. Alcohol consumption may result in additive CNS depression.
Etomidate: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Fenfluramine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
fentaNYL: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as zuranolone. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Flibanserin: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
fluPHENAZine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Flurazepam: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Food: (Major) Advise patients to avoid cannabis use while taking CNS depressants due to the risk for additive CNS depression and potential for other cognitive adverse reactions.
Foscarbidopa; Foslevodopa: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zuranolone and fosphenytoin. Concurrent use may decrease zuranolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate and fosphenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced zuranolone overall exposure by 85%.
Gabapentin: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Ganaxolone: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
guanFACINE: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Haloperidol: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as zuranolone. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
HYDROcodone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as zuranolone. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as zuranolone. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
HYDROmorphone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as zuranolone. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
hydrOXYzine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Idelalisib: (Major) Decrease the zuranolone dose to 30 mg once daily and monitor for zuranolone-related adverse effects if concomitant use with idelalisib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase zuranolone exposure and the risk for zuranolone-related adverse effects. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate and idelalisib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zuranolone overall exposure by 1.62-fold.
Iloperidone: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Imipramine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of multiple sedating agents, such as zuranolone and tricyclic antidepressants, may result in additive CNS depression. Monitor for additive CNS depressant effects and consider taking additional steps to minimize the risk for over sedation, such as avoidance or a downward dose adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Isocarboxazid: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Isoflurane: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Itraconazole: (Major) Decrease the zuranolone dose to 30 mg once daily and monitor for zuranolone-related adverse effects if concomitant use with itraconazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase zuranolone exposure and the risk for zuranolone-related adverse effects. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate and itraconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use increased zuranolone overall exposure by 1.62-fold.
Ketamine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Ketoconazole: (Major) Decrease the zuranolone dose to 30 mg once daily and monitor for zuranolone-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ketoconazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase zuranolone exposure and the risk for zuranolone-related adverse effects. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zuranolone overall exposure by 1.62-fold.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Decrease the zuranolone dose to 30 mg once daily and monitor for zuranolone-related adverse effects if concomitant use with clarithromycin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase zuranolone exposure and the risk for zuranolone-related adverse effects. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zuranolone overall exposure by 1.62-fold.
Lasmiditan: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Lemborexant: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Letermovir: (Major) Decrease the zuranolone dose to 30 mg once daily and monitor for zuranolone-related adverse effects if concomitant use with combination letermovir plus cyclosporine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase zuranolone exposure and the risk for zuranolone-related adverse effects. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate and combination letermovir plus cyclosporine is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zuranolone overall exposure by 1.62-fold.
Levodopa: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Levoketoconazole: (Major) Decrease the zuranolone dose to 30 mg once daily and monitor for zuranolone-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ketoconazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase zuranolone exposure and the risk for zuranolone-related adverse effects. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zuranolone overall exposure by 1.62-fold.
Levorphanol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as zuranolone. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Lofexidine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Decrease the zuranolone dose to 30 mg once daily and monitor for zuranolone-related adverse effects if concomitant use with lonafarnib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase zuranolone exposure and the risk for zuranolone-related adverse effects. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate and lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zuranolone overall exposure by 1.62-fold.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Decrease the zuranolone dose to 30 mg once daily and monitor for zuranolone-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ritonavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase zuranolone exposure and the risk for zuranolone-related adverse effects. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zuranolone overall exposure by 1.62-fold.
LORazepam: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Loxapine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zuranolone and lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Concurrent use may decrease zuranolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced zuranolone overall exposure by 85%.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zuranolone and lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Concurrent use may decrease zuranolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced zuranolone overall exposure by 85%.
Lumateperone: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Lurasidone: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Meclizine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Melatonin: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Meperidine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as zuranolone. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Meprobamate: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Metaxalone: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Methadone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as zuranolone. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Methocarbamol: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Methohexital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zuranolone and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease zuranolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy; use may also increase the risk for CNS depression. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate, barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers, and both medications have been associated with CNS depression. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced zuranolone overall exposure by 85%.
Methyldopa: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Metoclopramide: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Midazolam: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Decrease the zuranolone dose to 30 mg once daily and monitor for zuranolone-related adverse effects if concomitant use with mifepristone is necessary. Concomitant use may increase zuranolone exposure and the risk for zuranolone-related adverse effects. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate and mifepristone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zuranolone overall exposure by 1.62-fold.
Mirtazapine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Mitotane: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zuranolone and mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease zuranolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced zuranolone overall exposure by 85%.
Molindone: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Morphine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as zuranolone. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Nalbuphine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Nefazodone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zuranolone and nefazodone. Concomitant use may increase zuranolone exposure and may also increase the risk for additive CNS depression. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the zuranolone dose to 30 mg once daily and monitor for zuranolone-related adverse effects. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate, nefazodone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with CNS depression. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zuranolone overall exposure by 1.62-fold.
Nelfinavir: (Major) Decrease the zuranolone dose to 30 mg once daily and monitor for zuranolone-related adverse effects if concomitant use with nelfinavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase zuranolone exposure and the risk for zuranolone-related adverse effects. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate and nelfinavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zuranolone overall exposure by 1.62-fold.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Decrease the zuranolone dose to 30 mg once daily and monitor for zuranolone-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ritonavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase zuranolone exposure and the risk for zuranolone-related adverse effects. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zuranolone overall exposure by 1.62-fold.
Nortriptyline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of multiple sedating agents, such as zuranolone and tricyclic antidepressants, may result in additive CNS depression. Monitor for additive CNS depressant effects and consider taking additional steps to minimize the risk for over sedation, such as avoidance or a downward dose adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
OLANZapine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Oliceridine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as zuranolone. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Opiate Agonists: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as zuranolone. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Orphenadrine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Oxazepam: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
oxyCODONE: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as zuranolone. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
oxyMORphone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as zuranolone. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Paliperidone: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Pentazocine; Naloxone: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
PENTobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zuranolone and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease zuranolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy; use may also increase the risk for CNS depression. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate, barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers, and both medications have been associated with CNS depression. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced zuranolone overall exposure by 85%.
Perampanel: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Perphenazine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm. (Moderate) Concomitant use of multiple sedating agents, such as zuranolone and tricyclic antidepressants, may result in additive CNS depression. Monitor for additive CNS depressant effects and consider taking additional steps to minimize the risk for over sedation, such as avoidance or a downward dose adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Phenelzine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zuranolone and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease zuranolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy; use may also increase the risk for CNS depression. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate, barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers, and both medications have been associated with CNS depression. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced zuranolone overall exposure by 85%.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zuranolone and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease zuranolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy; use may also increase the risk for CNS depression. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate, barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers, and both medications have been associated with CNS depression. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced zuranolone overall exposure by 85%. (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Phenytoin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zuranolone and phenytoin. Concurrent use may decrease zuranolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced zuranolone overall exposure by 85%.
Pimavanserin: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Pimozide: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Posaconazole: (Major) Decrease the zuranolone dose to 30 mg once daily and monitor for zuranolone-related adverse effects if concomitant use with posaconazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase zuranolone exposure and the risk for zuranolone-related adverse effects. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate and posaconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zuranolone overall exposure by 1.62-fold.
Pramipexole: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Pregabalin: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Primidone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zuranolone and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease zuranolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy; use may also increase the risk for CNS depression. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate, barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers, and both medications have been associated with CNS depression. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced zuranolone overall exposure by 85%.
Prochlorperazine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Promethazine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Propofol: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Protriptyline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of multiple sedating agents, such as zuranolone and tricyclic antidepressants, may result in additive CNS depression. Monitor for additive CNS depressant effects and consider taking additional steps to minimize the risk for over sedation, such as avoidance or a downward dose adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Quazepam: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
QUEtiapine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Ramelteon: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Rasagiline: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Relacorilant: (Major) Decrease the zuranolone dose to 30 mg once daily and monitor for zuranolone-related adverse effects if concomitant use with relacorilant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase zuranolone exposure and the risk for zuranolone-related adverse effects. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zuranolone overall exposure by 1.62-fold.
Remifentanil: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as zuranolone. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Remimazolam: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Ribociclib: (Major) Decrease the zuranolone dose to 30 mg once daily and monitor for zuranolone-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ribociclib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase zuranolone exposure and the risk for zuranolone-related adverse effects. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zuranolone overall exposure by 1.62-fold.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Decrease the zuranolone dose to 30 mg once daily and monitor for zuranolone-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ribociclib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase zuranolone exposure and the risk for zuranolone-related adverse effects. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zuranolone overall exposure by 1.62-fold.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zuranolone and rifampin. Concurrent use may decrease zuranolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use reduced zuranolone overall exposure by 85%.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zuranolone and rifapentine. Concurrent use may decrease zuranolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced zuranolone overall exposure by 85%.
risperiDONE: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Ritonavir: (Major) Decrease the zuranolone dose to 30 mg once daily and monitor for zuranolone-related adverse effects if concomitant use with ritonavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase zuranolone exposure and the risk for zuranolone-related adverse effects. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zuranolone overall exposure by 1.62-fold.
rOPINIRole: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Rotigotine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Safinamide: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Saquinavir: (Major) Decrease the zuranolone dose to 30 mg once daily and monitor for zuranolone-related adverse effects if concomitant use with saquinavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase zuranolone exposure and the risk for zuranolone-related adverse effects. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate and saquinavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zuranolone overall exposure by 1.62-fold.
Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Secobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zuranolone and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease zuranolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy; use may also increase the risk for CNS depression. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate, barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers, and both medications have been associated with CNS depression. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced zuranolone overall exposure by 85%.
Selegiline: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Sevoflurane: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Sodium Oxybate: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zuranolone and St. John's wort. Concurrent use may decrease zuranolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate and St. John's wort is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced zuranolone overall exposure by 85%.
Stiripentol: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
SUFentanil: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as zuranolone. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Suvorexant: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Tapentadol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as zuranolone. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Tasimelteon: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Temazepam: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Tetrabenazine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Thalidomide: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Thioridazine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Thiothixene: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Tipranavir: (Major) Decrease the zuranolone dose to 30 mg once daily and monitor for zuranolone-related adverse effects if concomitant use with tipranavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase zuranolone exposure and the risk for zuranolone-related adverse effects. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate and tipranavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zuranolone overall exposure by 1.62-fold.
tiZANidine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Tolcapone: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Tradipitant: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression, such as zuranolone, is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
traMADol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as zuranolone. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of opioids and other CNS depressants, such as zuranolone. Concomitant use can increase the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. If alternate treatment options are inadequate and coadministration is necessary, limit dosages and durations to the minimum required, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation, and consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.
Tranylcypromine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
traZODone: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Triazolam: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Moderate) Concomitant use of multiple sedating agents, such as zuranolone and tricyclic antidepressants, may result in additive CNS depression. Monitor for additive CNS depressant effects and consider taking additional steps to minimize the risk for over sedation, such as avoidance or a downward dose adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Trifluoperazine: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Trimipramine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of multiple sedating agents, such as zuranolone and tricyclic antidepressants, may result in additive CNS depression. Monitor for additive CNS depressant effects and consider taking additional steps to minimize the risk for over sedation, such as avoidance or a downward dose adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Tucatinib: (Major) Decrease the zuranolone dose to 30 mg once daily and monitor for zuranolone-related adverse effects if concomitant use with tucatinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase zuranolone exposure and the risk for zuranolone-related adverse effects. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zuranolone overall exposure by 1.62-fold.
Valerian, Valeriana officinalis: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Valproic Acid, Divalproex Sodium: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Decrease the zuranolone dose to 30 mg once daily and monitor for zuranolone-related adverse effects if concomitant use with clarithromycin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase zuranolone exposure and the risk for zuranolone-related adverse effects. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zuranolone overall exposure by 1.62-fold.
Voriconazole: (Major) Decrease the zuranolone dose to 30 mg once daily and monitor for zuranolone-related adverse effects if concomitant use with voriconazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase zuranolone exposure and the risk for zuranolone-related adverse effects. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate and voriconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased zuranolone overall exposure by 1.62-fold.
Zaleplon: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Ziprasidone: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.
Zolpidem: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    suicidal ideation
    General Information
    No evidence for increased suicidal ideation or suicidal behavior was observed compared with baseline, measured by the Columbia-Suicide Severity Rating Scale, during one placebo-controlled clinical trial study with zuranolone for the treatment of postpartum depression. Previous pooled analyses of placebo-controlled trials that included approximately 77,000 adults and 4,500 pediatric patients showed that the incidence of suicidal thoughts and behaviors in pediatric patients and young adults (up to 24 years of age) was greater than in placebo-treated patients for most antidepressants studied (SSRIs and others). These studies did not show an increase in the risk of suicidal thoughts and behavior with antidepressant use in adults over 24 years of age; there was a reduction in risk with antidepressant use in patients 65 years and older. Because zuranolone does not directly affect monoaminergic systems and there is a low number of exposures to zuranolone, the risk of suicidal ideation in relation to this pooled analyses is unknown. Consider changing the therapeutic regimen, including discontinuation of zuranolone, in patients with worsening depression or emergent suicidality.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      suicidal ideation
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    anxiety, asthenia, confusion, dizziness, drowsiness, fatigue, lethargy, memory impairment, vertigo
    General Information
    During clinical trials for postpartum depression, somnolence was the most commonly reported adverse reaction to zuranolone, affecting 36% of patients receiving zuranolone 50 mg/day and 19% of patients receiving zuranolone 40 mg/day (compared to 6% to 11% reported with placebo). Somnolence (including drowsiness, hypersomnia, and sedation in some studies) was also the most common side effect leading to zuranolone discontinuation (2%) and was a common reason for zuranolone dose reduction (10%). Dizziness (including vertigo) was also a common adverse reaction reported at an incidence greater than with placebo (13% with zuranolone 50 mg/day and 8% with 40 mg/day) and was an additional side effect that led to dose reduction in some patients (6%). Other reported side effects in zuranolone-treated patients that occurred more commonly than with placebo included fatigue (including asthenia and lethargy in some studies) (5%), memory impairment (3%), and anxiety (2%). Across postpartum depression clinical studies at all doses studied, confusion (1%) was a serious adverse reaction to zuranolone treatment.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      confusion
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anxiety
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      memory impairment
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      vertigo
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      lethargy
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    abdominal pain, diarrhea
    General Information
    In clinical trials of zuranolone for the treatment of postpartum depression, abdominal pain (including upper abdominal pain) was reported in 3% of patients on a 50 mg/day dose of zuranolone (no reports in placebo arm). Diarrhea was reported in 5% to 6% of patients on zuranolone (40 mg/day and 50 mg/day, respectively) with 2% to 6% of patients on placebo also reporting these effects.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    infection, nasal congestion, pharyngitis
    General Information
    In clinical trials of zuranolone for the treatment of postpartum depression, infection was reported more commonly in patients receiving zuranolone than with placebo. Reported infections in treated patients included urinary tract infection (5%), COVID-19 (2%), and naso-pharyngitis/upper respiratory infection (9%). Sinus congestion (nasal congestion) was also reported in 3% of patients taking zuranolone.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pharyngitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nasal congestion
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hypoesthesia, myalgia, myoclonia, tremor
    General Information
    In clinical trials of zuranolone for treatment of postpartum depression, several musculoskeletal adverse effects were reported more commonly with zuranolone treatment than with placebo, including hypoesthesia (2%), muscle twitching (myoclonia) (2%), myalgia (2%), and tremor (2%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypoesthesia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      myalgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      tremor
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      myoclonia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    dental pain, xerostomia
    General Information
    In clinical trials of zuranolone for the treatment of postpartum depression, xerostomia (dry mouth) occurred in 4% of patients while dental pain (toothache) was reported in 3% of patients treated with zuranolone. There were no reports of either of these adverse effects in patients receiving placebo.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dental pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    rash
    General Information
    In clinical trials of postpartum depression, 2% of patients taking zuranolone 50 mg/day reported a rash vs. 1% of patients taking placebo.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To

Description
  Text
  Zuranolone is the first oral medication indicated to treat postpartum depression (PPD) in adults and is a neuroactive steroid gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) A receptor positive modulator. Efficacy was demonstrated in 2 randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter studies. The trial participants were women with PPD who met the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders criteria for a major depressive episode (DSM-5 criteria for Study 1 and DSM-IV for Study 2) and whose symptoms began in the third trimester or within 4 weeks of delivery. These studies included patients with a Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAM-D)-17 score of 26 or more at baseline. In Study 1, patients received 50 mg of zuranolone or placebo once daily in the evening for 14 days. In Study 2, patients received another zuranolone product (approximately 40 mg of zuranolone) or placebo, also for 14 days. Patients in both studies were allowed to continue existing oral antidepressant treatment as long as the dose had been stable, and the medication had been taken for at least 30 days prior to baseline assessment. Patients were monitored for at least 4 weeks after the 14-day treatment course. The primary endpoint of both studies was the change in depressive symptoms using the total score from the HAMD-17, measured at day 15. Patients in the zuranolone groups showed significantly more improvement in their symptoms versus placebo groups. The treatment effect was maintained at 4 weeks (42 days) after the last dose. The labeling contains a boxed warning noting that zuranolone can impact a person's ability to drive and perform other potentially hazardous activities. Patients also may not be able to assess their degree of impairment. To reduce the risk of harm, patients should not drive or operate heavy machinery for at least 12 hours after taking a dose of the medication. The recommended treatment regimen is zuranolone 50 mg once daily in the evening for 14 days, given with a fat-containing meal (e.g. 400 to 1,000 calories; 25% to 50% fat). For patients experiencing CNS depressant effects within the 14-day period, a dose reduction to 40 mg should be considered for the remaining treatment duration. The FDA-approved zuranolone under fast track, priority review in August 2023. The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) recommends use of zuranolone in the postpartum period for severe depression, reflecting the severity of symptoms of patients that were included in pre-approval clinical trials. ACOG also highlights the importance of shared decision-making that balances the benefits of treatment with treatment complexity.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  The mechanism of action of zuranolone in the treatment of postpartum depression is not fully understood, but is thought to be related to its positive allosteric modulation of gamma aminobutyric acid-A (GABA-A) receptors. In the postpartum period, there are disruptions of perinatal GABA signaling and dramatic perinatal changes in circulating levels of allopregnanolone, a neuroactive steroid GABA-A receptor positive allosteric modulator. Dramatic alterations in allopregnanolone in brain regions associated with emotion and self-perception, which are supported by GABAergic signaling, can occur following delivery. These changes have been associated with postpartum depression compared to healthy postpartum female individuals. Administration of zuranolone helps to modulate these changes by acting at both synaptic and extrasynaptic GABA-A receptors, decreasing the effects of alterations in endogenous allopregnanolone.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Following oral administration, Tmax occurs at 5 to 6 hours. Absolute bioavailability has not been evaluated. Cmax and AUC increase approximately dose proportionally with doses ranging from 30 mg to 60 mg when administered with a moderate-fat meal (700 calories; 30% fat). Once daily administration resulted in accumulation of approximately 1.5-fold in systemic exposures and steady state was achieved in 3 to 5 days. Following administration of 30 mg to healthy subjects, Cmax and AUClast increased by approximately 3.5- and 1.8-fold, respectively, with a low-fat meal (400 to 500 calories; 25% fat) compared with fasted conditions. Cmax and AUC increased by approximately 4.3- and 2-fold, respectively, with a high-fat meal (800 to 1,000 calories; 50% fat) compared with fasted conditions. The Tmax was not affected by food.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Exposure to zuranolone was increased significantly (approximately 1.54-fold) in people with severe hepatic impairment; dosage reductions are recommended in this population. In people with mild or moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class A or B), exposures are similar to those with normal hepatic function.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Exposure to zuranolone was increased in people with moderate (eGFR 30 to 59 mL/minute/1.73 m2) and severe (eGFR 15 to 29 mL/minute/1.73 m2) renal impairment and dosage reduction is recommended in these individuals. Zuranolone exposure in people with mild renal impairment (eGFR 60 to 89 mL/minute/1.73 m2) is similar to those with normal renal function. Zuranolone pharmacokinetics have not been studied in people with eGFR less than 15 mL/minute/1.73 m2 or people requiring dialysis.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    No clinically meaningful differences in pharmacokinetics of zuranolone were observed based on age (18 to 81 years).
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    No clinically meaningful differences in pharmacokinetics of zuranolone were observed based on sex.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    No clinically meaningful differences in pharmacokinetics of zuranolone were observed based on race.
  Text
  Zuranolone is administered orally. The Vd of zuranolone is more than 500 L. The mean blood-to-plasma concentration ratio ranges from 0.54 to 0.58. Plasma protein binding is more than 99.5%. Zuranolone is extensively metabolized, with CYP3A4 identified as the primary enzyme involved. In pharmacokinetic studies, there were no circulating human metabolites greater than 10% of total drug-related materials, and none were considered to contribute to the therapeutic effects of zuranolone. The terminal half-life of zuranolone is approximately 19.8 to 24.6 hours in adults. The mean apparent clearance is 33 L/hour. After administration of radiolabeled zuranolone, 45% of the dose was recovered in urine as metabolites with negligible unchanged zuranolone and 41% in feces as metabolites with less than 2% as unchanged zuranolone.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A4
Zuranolone is a substrate of CYP3A4. Zuranolone is not an inhibitor of CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP3A4, and does not inhibit transporter systems including P-gp, BCRP, BSEP, OATP1B1, OATP1B3, OAT1, OAT3, OCT1, OCT2, MATE1, or MATE2. Zuranolone is not an inducer of CYP1A2, CYP2B6, or CYP3A4 at the therapeutic dose range.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Administer capsules once daily in the evening with fat-containing food (e.g., such as a fatty meal containing 400 to 1,000 calories, 25% to 50% fat).
Missed dose: If an evening dose is missed, the patient should skip the missed dose and take the next dose at the regular time the following evening. The patient should then continue taking the capsules once daily in the evening until the remainder of the 14-day treatment course is completed.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    50 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Mild (Child-Pugh Class A) to moderate (Child-Pugh Class B) hepatic impairment: No dosage adjustment needed.
Severe (Child-Pugh Class C) hepatic impairment: 30 mg PO once daily in the evening for 14 days.
  Renal Impairment
  Mild renal impairment (eGFR 60 to 89 mL/min/1.73 m2): No dosage adjustment necessary.
Moderate or severe renal impairment (eGFR less than 60 mL/min/1.73 m2): 30 mg PO once daily in the evening for 14 days.
