=== Ado-Trastuzumab emtansine — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 3803)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Ado-trastuzumab emtansine is a HER2-targeted antibody-drug conjugate (ADC) that contains the humanized anti-HER2 IgG1, trastuzumab, covalently linked to the microtubule inhibitory drug, DM1 (a derivative of maytansine) by a stable thioether linker MCC (4-[N-maleimidomethyl]...

Routes: injection (IV/IM/SC); Common adult doses: 3.6 mg/kg IV every 3 weeks.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): dysgeusia, anemia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, cardiotoxicity, heart failure, peripheral edema, blurred vision, conjunctivitis, lacrimation, xerophthalmia, elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatic encephalopathy, hepatic failure, hepatotoxicity, hyperbilirubinemia, acute respiratory distress syndrome (ards), cough, dyspnea, interstitial lung disease, pneumonitis, chills, cystitis, fever, infection, anaphylactoid reactions, bronchospasm, flushing, hypotension, infusion-related reactions

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Use ado-trastuzumab emtansine with caution in patients with a history of heart failure, or in patients with conditions that could impair left ventricular function including coronary... Emetic risk: Low Extravasation risk: Nonvesicant Hazardous drug: NIOSH 2024 List: Table 1

ADO-TRASTUZUMAB EMTANSINE

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Kadcyla

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of patients with HER2-positive breast cancer

For the treatment of patients with HER2-positive, metastatic breast cancer who previously received trastuzumab and a taxane, either separately or in combination
Intravenous dosage
Adults


3.6 mg/kg IV every 3 weeks until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Infuse the first infusion over 90 minutes; if tolerated, subsequent infusions may be administered over 30 minutes. Do not substitute ado-trastuzumab emtansine for or with other trastuzumab-based products. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. In a randomized, multicenter, open-label clinical trial of patients with metastatic breast cancer, treatment with ado-trastuzumab emtansine (n = 495) significantly improved progression-free survival (PFS) (9.6 months vs. 6.4 months) and overall survival (30.9 months vs. 25.1 months) compared with a combination of lapatinib plus capecitabine (n = 496); objective response rate (43.6% vs. 30.8%) and duration of response (12.6 months vs. 6.5 months) were also improved.


For the adjuvant treatment of HER2-positive early breast cancer in patients with residual invasive disease after neoadjuvant chemotherapy containing a taxane and trastuzumab
Intravenous dosage
Adults


3.6 mg/kg IV every 3 weeks for 14 cycles, unless there is disease recurrence or unacceptable toxicity. Do not substitute ado-trastuzumab emtansine for or with other trastuzumab-based products. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. An open-label, phase 3 clinical trial (KATHERINE trial) was terminated early after showing a significant benefit on invasive disease-free survival (IDFS) with adjuvant T-DM1 to complete 52 weeks of therapy compared with trastuzumab in patients with early HER2-positive breast cancer and residual disease at the time of surgery after neoadjuvant chemotherapy (3-year IDFS, 88.3% vs. 77%); overall survival was also significantly improved in the ado-trastuzumab emtansine arm.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

cardiotoxicity, coronary artery disease, heart failure, hypertension, thoracic radiation therapy


Use ado-trastuzumab emtansine with caution in patients with a history of heart failure, or in patients with conditions that could impair left ventricular function including coronary artery disease, uncontrolled hypertension, thoracic radiation therapy and previous anthracycline exposure. Patients treated with ado-trastuzumab emtansine are at increased risk of developing cardiotoxicity (i.e., left ventricular dysfunction). Assess left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) prior to initiation of therapy and at regular intervals (e.g., every 3 months) during treatment; the use of ado-trastuzumab emtansine has not been studied in an adequately controlled study in patients with LVEF less than 50%. A reduction in LVEF may require a delay in dosage, dose reduction, or permanent discontinuation of therapy. Use ado-trastuzumab emtansine with caution in patients with a history of symptomatic congestive heart failure (CHF), serious cardiac arrhythmias, or a history of myocardial infarction or unstable angina within 6 months of treatment, as these patients were excluded from clinical trials. Ado-trastuzumab emtansine has not been studied in patients with a baseline left ventricular ejection fraction of less than 50%.


hepatotoxicity


Hepatotoxicity (usually in the form of asymptomatic, transient increases in serum transaminases) has been observed in clinical trials with ado-trastuzumab emtansine. Monitor transaminases and bilirubin prior to initiation of therapy and before each dose; an interruption of therapy, dose adjustment, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary for hepatotoxicity. Patients with known active liver disease (e.g., hepatitis B or hepatitis C) were excluded from clinical trials. Ado-trastuzumab emtansine has not been studied in patients with transaminases greater than 2.5 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) or bilirubin greater than 1.5 times ULN at baseline. Some patients experiencing hepatotoxicity had comorbidities or concomitant medications that also carry a risk of hepatotoxicity.


dyspnea at rest, pulmonary disease


Use ado-trastuzumab emtansine with caution in patients who have a history of pre-existing pulmonary disease; severe pneumonitis/interstitial lung disease has been reported in patients treated with ado-trastuzumab emtansine. Patients with dyspnea at rest due to complications of advanced malignancy, comorbidities, and receiving concurrent pulmonary radiation therapy may also be at increased risk of pulmonary toxicity. Monitor patients for new or worsening respiratory symptoms including fever, cough, or dyspnea. Immediately interrupt ado-trastuzumab emtansine therapy in patients with new or worsening respiratory symptoms and permanently discontinue therapy if no other potential causes are identified. Patients who develop radiation pneumonitis in the adjuvant setting.


breast-feeding


Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding during ado-trastuzumab emtansine treatment and for 7 months after the last dose. It is unknown if ado-trastuzumab emtansine is excreted into human milk. DM1 (the cytotoxic component of this medication, a small molecule) may enter milk and cause serious adverse reactions in the breastfed child based on its mechanism of action.


pregnancy


Avoid use of ado-trastuzumab emtansine during pregnancy and for 7 months after the last dose; serious fetal harm may occur. If ado-trastuzumab emtansine is administered during pregnancy or the patient becomes pregnant during this time period, inform them of the fetal risks, monitor for oligohydramnios, and immediately report exposure to Genentech (1-888-835-2555). If oligohydramnios occurs, perform fetal testing appropriate for gestational age and consistent with community standards of care. Oligohydramnios and oligohydramnios sequence (manifesting as pulmonary hypoplasia, skeletal abnormalities, and neonatal death) occurred during pregnancy in patients who received trastuzumab alone or in combination with chemotherapy. In addition, DM1, the cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, can cause embryo-fetal toxicity based on its mechanism of action.


embryo-fetal toxicity, people who can cause pregnancy in others, people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk


Counsel people who may become pregnant and people who can cause pregnancy in others about the reproductive risk associated with ado-trastuzumab emtansine. Embryo-fetal toxicity can occur with exposure to ado-trastuzumab emtansine. People who may become pregnant require pregnancy testing prior to initiation of therapy. These individuals should also use effective contraception during treatment and for at least 7 months after the last dose. Because of the potential for genotoxicity, counsel people who can cause pregnancy in others who have partners who may become pregnant to use effective contraception during treatment and for 4 months after the last dose. Healthcare providers and patients should report fetal exposure to Genentech (1-888-835-2555). Ado-trastuzumab emtansine may impair fertility in males and females. It is not known if the effects are reversible.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Avoid use of ado-trastuzumab emtansine during pregnancy and for 7 months after the last dose; serious fetal harm may occur. If ado-trastuzumab emtansine is administered during pregnancy or the patient becomes pregnant during this time period, inform them of the fetal risks, monitor for oligohydramnios, and immediately report exposure to Genentech (1-888-835-2555). If oligohydramnios occurs, perform fetal testing appropriate for gestational age and consistent with community standards of care. Oligohydramnios and oligohydramnios sequence (manifesting as pulmonary hypoplasia, skeletal abnormalities, and neonatal death) occurred during pregnancy in patients who received trastuzumab alone or in combination with chemotherapy. In addition, DM1, the cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, can cause embryo-fetal toxicity based on its mechanism of action.


Interactions

Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of aspirin with ado-trastuzumab emtansine is necessary due to reports of severe and sometimes fatal hemorrhage, including intracranial bleeding, with ado-trastuzumab emtansine therapy. Consider additional monitoring when concomitant use is medically necessary. While some patients who experienced bleeding during ado-trastuzumab therapy were also receiving anticoagulation therapy, others had no known additional risk factors.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of aspirin with ado-trastuzumab emtansine is necessary due to reports of severe and sometimes fatal hemorrhage, including intracranial bleeding, with ado-trastuzumab emtansine therapy. Consider additional monitoring when concomitant use is medically necessary. While some patients who experienced bleeding during ado-trastuzumab therapy were also receiving anticoagulation therapy, others had no known additional risk factors.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of aspirin with ado-trastuzumab emtansine is necessary due to reports of severe and sometimes fatal hemorrhage, including intracranial bleeding, with ado-trastuzumab emtansine therapy. Consider additional monitoring when concomitant use is medically necessary. While some patients who experienced bleeding during ado-trastuzumab therapy were also receiving anticoagulation therapy, others had no known additional risk factors.
Adagrasib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of adagrasib with ado-trastuzumab emtansine if possible due to the risk of elevated exposure to the cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1. Delay ado-trastuzumab emtansine treatment until adagrasib has cleared from the circulation (approximately 3 half-lives of adagrasib) when possible. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor patients for ado-trastuzumab emtansine-related adverse reactions. The cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1, is metabolized mainly by CYP3A and to a lesser extent by CYP3A5; adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Formal drug interaction studies with ado-trastuzumab emtansine have not been conducted.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin with ado-trastuzumab emtansine if possible due to the risk of elevated exposure to the cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1. Delay ado-trastuzumab emtansine treatment until clarithromycin has cleared from the circulation (approximately 3 half-lives of clarithromycin) when possible. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor patients for ado-trastuzumab emtansine-related adverse reactions. The cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1, is metabolized mainly by CYP3A4 and to a lesser extent by CYP3A5; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Formal drug interaction studies with ado-trastuzumab emtansine have not been conducted.
Anagrelide: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of platelet inhibitors with ado-trastuzumab emtansine is necessary due to reports of severe and sometimes fatal hemorrhage, including intracranial bleeding, with ado-trastuzumab emtansine therapy. Consider additional monitoring when concomitant use is medically necessary. While some patients who experienced bleeding during ado-trastuzumab therapy were also receiving anticoagulation therapy, others had no known additional risk factors.
Anticoagulants: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of anticoagulants with ado-trastuzumab emtansine is necessary due to reports of severe and sometimes fatal hemorrhage, including intracranial bleeding, with ado-trastuzumab emtansine therapy. Consider additional monitoring when concomitant use is medically necessary. While some patients who experienced bleeding during ado-trastuzumab therapy were also receiving anticoagulation therapy, others had no known additional risk factors.
Antithrombin III: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of anticoagulants with ado-trastuzumab emtansine is necessary due to reports of severe and sometimes fatal hemorrhage, including intracranial bleeding, with ado-trastuzumab emtansine therapy. Consider additional monitoring when concomitant use is medically necessary. While some patients who experienced bleeding during ado-trastuzumab therapy were also receiving anticoagulation therapy, others had no known additional risk factors.
Apixaban: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of anticoagulants with ado-trastuzumab emtansine is necessary due to reports of severe and sometimes fatal hemorrhage, including intracranial bleeding, with ado-trastuzumab emtansine therapy. Consider additional monitoring when concomitant use is medically necessary. While some patients who experienced bleeding during ado-trastuzumab therapy were also receiving anticoagulation therapy, others had no known additional risk factors.
Argatroban: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of anticoagulants with ado-trastuzumab emtansine is necessary due to reports of severe and sometimes fatal hemorrhage, including intracranial bleeding, with ado-trastuzumab emtansine therapy. Consider additional monitoring when concomitant use is medically necessary. While some patients who experienced bleeding during ado-trastuzumab therapy were also receiving anticoagulation therapy, others had no known additional risk factors.
Aspirin, ASA: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of aspirin with ado-trastuzumab emtansine is necessary due to reports of severe and sometimes fatal hemorrhage, including intracranial bleeding, with ado-trastuzumab emtansine therapy. Consider additional monitoring when concomitant use is medically necessary. While some patients who experienced bleeding during ado-trastuzumab therapy were also receiving anticoagulation therapy, others had no known additional risk factors.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of aspirin with ado-trastuzumab emtansine is necessary due to reports of severe and sometimes fatal hemorrhage, including intracranial bleeding, with ado-trastuzumab emtansine therapy. Consider additional monitoring when concomitant use is medically necessary. While some patients who experienced bleeding during ado-trastuzumab therapy were also receiving anticoagulation therapy, others had no known additional risk factors.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of aspirin with ado-trastuzumab emtansine is necessary due to reports of severe and sometimes fatal hemorrhage, including intracranial bleeding, with ado-trastuzumab emtansine therapy. Consider additional monitoring when concomitant use is medically necessary. While some patients who experienced bleeding during ado-trastuzumab therapy were also receiving anticoagulation therapy, others had no known additional risk factors.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of aspirin with ado-trastuzumab emtansine is necessary due to reports of severe and sometimes fatal hemorrhage, including intracranial bleeding, with ado-trastuzumab emtansine therapy. Consider additional monitoring when concomitant use is medically necessary. While some patients who experienced bleeding during ado-trastuzumab therapy were also receiving anticoagulation therapy, others had no known additional risk factors.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of aspirin with ado-trastuzumab emtansine is necessary due to reports of severe and sometimes fatal hemorrhage, including intracranial bleeding, with ado-trastuzumab emtansine therapy. Consider additional monitoring when concomitant use is medically necessary. While some patients who experienced bleeding during ado-trastuzumab therapy were also receiving anticoagulation therapy, others had no known additional risk factors.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of aspirin with ado-trastuzumab emtansine is necessary due to reports of severe and sometimes fatal hemorrhage, including intracranial bleeding, with ado-trastuzumab emtansine therapy. Consider additional monitoring when concomitant use is medically necessary. While some patients who experienced bleeding during ado-trastuzumab therapy were also receiving anticoagulation therapy, others had no known additional risk factors.
Aspirin, ASA; Dipyridamole: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of aspirin with ado-trastuzumab emtansine is necessary due to reports of severe and sometimes fatal hemorrhage, including intracranial bleeding, with ado-trastuzumab emtansine therapy. Consider additional monitoring when concomitant use is medically necessary. While some patients who experienced bleeding during ado-trastuzumab therapy were also receiving anticoagulation therapy, others had no known additional risk factors. (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of platelet inhibitors with ado-trastuzumab emtansine is necessary due to reports of severe and sometimes fatal hemorrhage, including intracranial bleeding, with ado-trastuzumab emtansine therapy. Consider additional monitoring when concomitant use is medically necessary. While some patients who experienced bleeding during ado-trastuzumab therapy were also receiving anticoagulation therapy, others had no known additional risk factors.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of aspirin with ado-trastuzumab emtansine is necessary due to reports of severe and sometimes fatal hemorrhage, including intracranial bleeding, with ado-trastuzumab emtansine therapy. Consider additional monitoring when concomitant use is medically necessary. While some patients who experienced bleeding during ado-trastuzumab therapy were also receiving anticoagulation therapy, others had no known additional risk factors.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of aspirin with ado-trastuzumab emtansine is necessary due to reports of severe and sometimes fatal hemorrhage, including intracranial bleeding, with ado-trastuzumab emtansine therapy. Consider additional monitoring when concomitant use is medically necessary. While some patients who experienced bleeding during ado-trastuzumab therapy were also receiving anticoagulation therapy, others had no known additional risk factors.
Atazanavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of atazanavir with ado-trastuzumab emtansine if possible due to the risk of elevated exposure to the cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1. Delay ado-trastuzumab emtansine treatment until atazanavir has cleared from the circulation (approximately 3 half-lives of atazanavir) when possible. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor patients for ado-trastuzumab emtansine-related adverse reactions. The cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1, is metabolized mainly by CYP3A4 and to a lesser extent by CYP3A5; atazanavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Formal drug interaction studies with ado-trastuzumab emtansine have not been conducted.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of atazanavir with ado-trastuzumab emtansine if possible due to the risk of elevated exposure to the cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1. Delay ado-trastuzumab emtansine treatment until atazanavir has cleared from the circulation (approximately 3 half-lives of atazanavir) when possible. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor patients for ado-trastuzumab emtansine-related adverse reactions. The cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1, is metabolized mainly by CYP3A4 and to a lesser extent by CYP3A5; atazanavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Formal drug interaction studies with ado-trastuzumab emtansine have not been conducted. (Major) Avoid coadministration of cobicistat with ado-trastuzumab emtansine if possible due to the risk of elevated exposure to the cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1. Delay ado-trastuzumab emtansine treatment until cobicistat has cleared from the circulation (approximately 3 half-lives of cobicistat) when possible. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor patients for ado-trastuzumab emtansine-related adverse reactions. The cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1, is metabolized mainly by CYP3A4 and to a lesser extent by CYP3A5; cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Formal drug interaction studies with ado-trastuzumab emtansine have not been conducted.
Bivalirudin: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of anticoagulants with ado-trastuzumab emtansine is necessary due to reports of severe and sometimes fatal hemorrhage, including intracranial bleeding, with ado-trastuzumab emtansine therapy. Consider additional monitoring when concomitant use is medically necessary. While some patients who experienced bleeding during ado-trastuzumab therapy were also receiving anticoagulation therapy, others had no known additional risk factors.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of aspirin with ado-trastuzumab emtansine is necessary due to reports of severe and sometimes fatal hemorrhage, including intracranial bleeding, with ado-trastuzumab emtansine therapy. Consider additional monitoring when concomitant use is medically necessary. While some patients who experienced bleeding during ado-trastuzumab therapy were also receiving anticoagulation therapy, others had no known additional risk factors.
Ceritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ceritinib with ado-trastuzumab emtansine if possible due to the risk of elevated exposure to the cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1. Delay ado-trastuzumab emtansine treatment until ceritinib has cleared from the circulation (approximately 3 half-lives of ceritinib) when possible. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor patients for ado-trastuzumab emtansine-related adverse reactions. The cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1, is metabolized mainly by CYP3A4 and to a lesser extent by CYP3A5; ceritinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Formal drug interaction studies with ado-trastuzumab emtansine have not been conducted.
Chloramphenicol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of chloramphenicol with ado-trastuzumab emtansine if possible due to the risk of elevated exposure to the cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1. Delay ado-trastuzumab emtansine treatment until chloramphenicol has cleared from the circulation (approximately 3 half-lives of chloramphenicol) when possible. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor patients for ado-trastuzumab emtansine-related adverse reactions. The cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1, is metabolized mainly by CYP3A4 and to a lesser extent by CYP3A5; chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Formal drug interaction studies with ado-trastuzumab emtansine have not been conducted.
Cholera Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the live cholera vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to cholera bacteria after receiving the vaccine.
Cilostazol: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of platelet inhibitors with ado-trastuzumab emtansine is necessary due to reports of severe and sometimes fatal hemorrhage, including intracranial bleeding, with ado-trastuzumab emtansine therapy. Consider additional monitoring when concomitant use is medically necessary. While some patients who experienced bleeding during ado-trastuzumab therapy were also receiving anticoagulation therapy, others had no known additional risk factors.
Ciprofloxacin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ado-trastuzumab emtansine with ciprofloxacin, as plasma exposure to the cytotoxic small molecule of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1, may be increased. Treatment with ado-trastuzumab emtansine should be delayed until ciprofloxacin is cleared from the circulation (approximately 3 elimination half-lives), or an alternate medication with less potential to inhibit CYP3A4 should be considered. If co-administration is necessary, monitor for an increase in ado-trastuzumab emtansine-related adverse events. Ciprofloxacin is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. While formal drug interaction studies have not been conducted, DM1 is mainly metabolized by CYP3A4 (and to a lesser extent, CYP3A5) in vitro. Coadministration may result in potentially increased DM1 exposure and toxicity.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin with ado-trastuzumab emtansine if possible due to the risk of elevated exposure to the cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1. Delay ado-trastuzumab emtansine treatment until clarithromycin has cleared from the circulation (approximately 3 half-lives of clarithromycin) when possible. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor patients for ado-trastuzumab emtansine-related adverse reactions. The cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1, is metabolized mainly by CYP3A4 and to a lesser extent by CYP3A5; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Formal drug interaction studies with ado-trastuzumab emtansine have not been conducted.
Clopidogrel: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of platelet inhibitors with ado-trastuzumab emtansine is necessary due to reports of severe and sometimes fatal hemorrhage, including intracranial bleeding, with ado-trastuzumab emtansine therapy. Consider additional monitoring when concomitant use is medically necessary. While some patients who experienced bleeding during ado-trastuzumab therapy were also receiving anticoagulation therapy, others had no known additional risk factors.
cloZAPine: (Major) It is unclear if concurrent use of other drugs known to cause neutropenia (e.g., antineoplastic agents) increases the risk or severity of clozapine-induced neutropenia. Because there is no strong rationale for avoiding clozapine in patients treated with these drugs, consider increased absolute neutrophil count (ANC) monitoring and consult the treating oncologist.
Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of cobicistat with ado-trastuzumab emtansine if possible due to the risk of elevated exposure to the cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1. Delay ado-trastuzumab emtansine treatment until cobicistat has cleared from the circulation (approximately 3 half-lives of cobicistat) when possible. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor patients for ado-trastuzumab emtansine-related adverse reactions. The cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1, is metabolized mainly by CYP3A4 and to a lesser extent by CYP3A5; cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Formal drug interaction studies with ado-trastuzumab emtansine have not been conducted.
Dabigatran: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of anticoagulants with ado-trastuzumab emtansine is necessary due to reports of severe and sometimes fatal hemorrhage, including intracranial bleeding, with ado-trastuzumab emtansine therapy. Consider additional monitoring when concomitant use is medically necessary. While some patients who experienced bleeding during ado-trastuzumab therapy were also receiving anticoagulation therapy, others had no known additional risk factors.
Dalteparin: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of anticoagulants with ado-trastuzumab emtansine is necessary due to reports of severe and sometimes fatal hemorrhage, including intracranial bleeding, with ado-trastuzumab emtansine therapy. Consider additional monitoring when concomitant use is medically necessary. While some patients who experienced bleeding during ado-trastuzumab therapy were also receiving anticoagulation therapy, others had no known additional risk factors.
Darunavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of darunavir with ado-trastuzumab emtansine if possible due to the risk of elevated exposure to the cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1. Delay ado-trastuzumab emtansine treatment until darunavir has cleared from the circulation (approximately 3 half-lives of darunavir) when possible. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor patients for ado-trastuzumab emtansine-related adverse reactions. The cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1, is metabolized mainly by CYP3A4 and to a lesser extent by CYP3A5; darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Formal drug interaction studies with ado-trastuzumab emtansine have not been conducted.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of cobicistat with ado-trastuzumab emtansine if possible due to the risk of elevated exposure to the cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1. Delay ado-trastuzumab emtansine treatment until cobicistat has cleared from the circulation (approximately 3 half-lives of cobicistat) when possible. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor patients for ado-trastuzumab emtansine-related adverse reactions. The cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1, is metabolized mainly by CYP3A4 and to a lesser extent by CYP3A5; cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Formal drug interaction studies with ado-trastuzumab emtansine have not been conducted. (Major) Avoid coadministration of darunavir with ado-trastuzumab emtansine if possible due to the risk of elevated exposure to the cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1. Delay ado-trastuzumab emtansine treatment until darunavir has cleared from the circulation (approximately 3 half-lives of darunavir) when possible. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor patients for ado-trastuzumab emtansine-related adverse reactions. The cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1, is metabolized mainly by CYP3A4 and to a lesser extent by CYP3A5; darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Formal drug interaction studies with ado-trastuzumab emtansine have not been conducted.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of cobicistat with ado-trastuzumab emtansine if possible due to the risk of elevated exposure to the cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1. Delay ado-trastuzumab emtansine treatment until cobicistat has cleared from the circulation (approximately 3 half-lives of cobicistat) when possible. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor patients for ado-trastuzumab emtansine-related adverse reactions. The cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1, is metabolized mainly by CYP3A4 and to a lesser extent by CYP3A5; cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Formal drug interaction studies with ado-trastuzumab emtansine have not been conducted. (Major) Avoid coadministration of darunavir with ado-trastuzumab emtansine if possible due to the risk of elevated exposure to the cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1. Delay ado-trastuzumab emtansine treatment until darunavir has cleared from the circulation (approximately 3 half-lives of darunavir) when possible. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor patients for ado-trastuzumab emtansine-related adverse reactions. The cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1, is metabolized mainly by CYP3A4 and to a lesser extent by CYP3A5; darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Formal drug interaction studies with ado-trastuzumab emtansine have not been conducted.
Dengue Tetravalent Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of the live dengue virus vaccine with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Dipyridamole: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of platelet inhibitors with ado-trastuzumab emtansine is necessary due to reports of severe and sometimes fatal hemorrhage, including intracranial bleeding, with ado-trastuzumab emtansine therapy. Consider additional monitoring when concomitant use is medically necessary. While some patients who experienced bleeding during ado-trastuzumab therapy were also receiving anticoagulation therapy, others had no known additional risk factors.
Edoxaban: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of anticoagulants with ado-trastuzumab emtansine is necessary due to reports of severe and sometimes fatal hemorrhage, including intracranial bleeding, with ado-trastuzumab emtansine therapy. Consider additional monitoring when concomitant use is medically necessary. While some patients who experienced bleeding during ado-trastuzumab therapy were also receiving anticoagulation therapy, others had no known additional risk factors.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of cobicistat with ado-trastuzumab emtansine if possible due to the risk of elevated exposure to the cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1. Delay ado-trastuzumab emtansine treatment until cobicistat has cleared from the circulation (approximately 3 half-lives of cobicistat) when possible. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor patients for ado-trastuzumab emtansine-related adverse reactions. The cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1, is metabolized mainly by CYP3A4 and to a lesser extent by CYP3A5; cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Formal drug interaction studies with ado-trastuzumab emtansine have not been conducted.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of cobicistat with ado-trastuzumab emtansine if possible due to the risk of elevated exposure to the cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1. Delay ado-trastuzumab emtansine treatment until cobicistat has cleared from the circulation (approximately 3 half-lives of cobicistat) when possible. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor patients for ado-trastuzumab emtansine-related adverse reactions. The cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1, is metabolized mainly by CYP3A4 and to a lesser extent by CYP3A5; cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Formal drug interaction studies with ado-trastuzumab emtansine have not been conducted.
Enoxaparin: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of anticoagulants with ado-trastuzumab emtansine is necessary due to reports of severe and sometimes fatal hemorrhage, including intracranial bleeding, with ado-trastuzumab emtansine therapy. Consider additional monitoring when concomitant use is medically necessary. While some patients who experienced bleeding during ado-trastuzumab therapy were also receiving anticoagulation therapy, others had no known additional risk factors.
Ensitrelvir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ensitrelvir with ado-trastuzumab emtansine if possible due to the risk of elevated exposure to the cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1. Delay ado-trastuzumab emtansine treatment until ensitrelvir has cleared from the circulation (approximately 3 half-lives of ensitrelvir) when possible. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor patients for ado-trastuzumab emtansine-related adverse reactions. The cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1, is metabolized mainly by CYP3A and to a lesser extent by CYP3A5; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Formal drug interaction studies with ado-trastuzumab emtansine have not been conducted.
Eptifibatide: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of platelet inhibitors with ado-trastuzumab emtansine is necessary due to reports of severe and sometimes fatal hemorrhage, including intracranial bleeding, with ado-trastuzumab emtansine therapy. Consider additional monitoring when concomitant use is medically necessary. While some patients who experienced bleeding during ado-trastuzumab therapy were also receiving anticoagulation therapy, others had no known additional risk factors.
fluvoxaMINE: (Moderate) If coadministration is necessary, monitor for an increase in ado-trastuzumab emtansine-related adverse events. Fluvoxamine is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and plasma exposure to DM1, the cytotoxic small molecule of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, may be increased. While formal drug interaction studies have not been conducted, DM1 is mainly metabolized by CYP3A4 (and to a lesser extent, CYP3A5) in vitro. Coadministration may result in potentially increased DM1 exposure and toxicity.
Fondaparinux: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of anticoagulants with ado-trastuzumab emtansine is necessary due to reports of severe and sometimes fatal hemorrhage, including intracranial bleeding, with ado-trastuzumab emtansine therapy. Consider additional monitoring when concomitant use is medically necessary. While some patients who experienced bleeding during ado-trastuzumab therapy were also receiving anticoagulation therapy, others had no known additional risk factors.
Fosamprenavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of fosamprenavir with ado-trastuzumab emtansine if possible due to the risk of elevated exposure to the cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1. Delay ado-trastuzumab emtansine treatment until fosamprenavir has cleared from the circulation (approximately 3 half-lives of fosamprenavir) when possible. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor patients for ado-trastuzumab emtansine-related adverse reactions. The cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1, is metabolized mainly by CYP3A4 and to a lesser extent by CYP3A5; fosamprenavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Formal drug interaction studies with ado-trastuzumab emtansine have not been conducted.
Heparin: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of anticoagulants with ado-trastuzumab emtansine is necessary due to reports of severe and sometimes fatal hemorrhage, including intracranial bleeding, with ado-trastuzumab emtansine therapy. Consider additional monitoring when concomitant use is medically necessary. While some patients who experienced bleeding during ado-trastuzumab therapy were also receiving anticoagulation therapy, others had no known additional risk factors.
Idelalisib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of idelalisib with ado-trastuzumab emtansine if possible due to the risk of elevated exposure to the cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1. Delay ado-trastuzumab emtansine treatment until idelalisib has cleared from the circulation (approximately 3 half-lives of idelalisib) when possible. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor patients for ado-trastuzumab emtansine-related adverse reactions. The cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1, is metabolized mainly by CYP3A4 and to a lesser extent by CYP3A5; idelalisib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Formal drug interaction studies with ado-trastuzumab emtansine have not been conducted.
Itraconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of itraconazole with ado-trastuzumab emtansine if possible due to the risk of elevated exposure to the cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1. Delay ado-trastuzumab emtansine treatment until itraconazole has cleared from the circulation (approximately 3 half-lives of itraconazole) when possible. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor patients for ado-trastuzumab emtansine-related adverse reactions. The cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1, is metabolized mainly by CYP3A4 and to a lesser extent by CYP3A5; itraconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Formal drug interaction studies with ado-trastuzumab emtansine have not been conducted.
Ketoconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ketoconazole with ado-trastuzumab emtansine if possible due to the risk of elevated exposure to the cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1. Delay ado-trastuzumab emtansine treatment until ketoconazole has cleared from the circulation (approximately 3 half-lives of ketoconazole) when possible. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor patients for ado-trastuzumab emtansine-related adverse reactions. The cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1, is metabolized mainly by CYP3A4 and to a lesser extent by CYP3A5; ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Formal drug interaction studies with ado-trastuzumab emtansine have not been conducted.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin with ado-trastuzumab emtansine if possible due to the risk of elevated exposure to the cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1. Delay ado-trastuzumab emtansine treatment until clarithromycin has cleared from the circulation (approximately 3 half-lives of clarithromycin) when possible. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor patients for ado-trastuzumab emtansine-related adverse reactions. The cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1, is metabolized mainly by CYP3A4 and to a lesser extent by CYP3A5; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Formal drug interaction studies with ado-trastuzumab emtansine have not been conducted.
Letermovir: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering ado-trastuzumab with letermovir. If the patient is also receiving cyclosporine, use of ado-trastuzumab should be avoided for 3 half-lives after discontinuation of letermovir and cyclosporine. If these drugs must be administered concurrently, closely monitor for adverse drug reactions. Administering letermovir with ado-trastuzumab may increase ado-trastuzumab concentration and risk for adverse events. The magnitude of this interaction may be increased in patients who are also receiving cyclosporine. Ado-trastuzumab is a substrate of CYP3A4. Letermovir is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. The combined effect of letermovir and cyclosporine on CYP3A4 substrates may be similar to a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Levoketoconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ketoconazole with ado-trastuzumab emtansine if possible due to the risk of elevated exposure to the cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1. Delay ado-trastuzumab emtansine treatment until ketoconazole has cleared from the circulation (approximately 3 half-lives of ketoconazole) when possible. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor patients for ado-trastuzumab emtansine-related adverse reactions. The cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1, is metabolized mainly by CYP3A4 and to a lesser extent by CYP3A5; ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Formal drug interaction studies with ado-trastuzumab emtansine have not been conducted.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lonafarnib with ado-trastuzumab emtansine if possible due to the risk of elevated exposure to the cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1. Delay ado-trastuzumab emtansine treatment until lonafarnib has cleared from the circulation (approximately 3 half-lives of lonafarnib) when possible. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor patients for ado-trastuzumab emtansine-related adverse reactions. The cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1, is metabolized mainly by CYP3A4 and to a lesser extent by CYP3A5; lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Formal drug interaction studies with ado-trastuzumab emtansine have not been conducted.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ritonavir with ado-trastuzumab emtansine if possible due to the risk of elevated exposure to the cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1. Delay ado-trastuzumab emtansine treatment until ritonavir has cleared from the circulation (approximately 3 half-lives of ritonavir) when possible. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor patients for ado-trastuzumab emtansine-related adverse reactions. The cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1, is metabolized mainly by CYP3A4 and to a lesser extent by CYP3A5; ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Formal drug interaction studies with ado-trastuzumab emtansine have not been conducted.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mifepristone with ado-trastuzumab emtansine if possible due to the risk of elevated exposure to the cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1. Delay ado-trastuzumab emtansine treatment until mifepristone has cleared from the circulation (approximately 3 half-lives of mifepristone) when possible. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor patients for ado-trastuzumab emtansine-related adverse reactions. The cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1, is metabolized mainly by CYP3A4 and to a lesser extent by CYP3A5; mifepristone is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Formal drug interaction studies with ado-trastuzumab emtansine have not been conducted. The clinical significance of this interaction with the short-term use of mifepristone for termination of pregnancy is unknown.
Nefazodone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nefazodone with ado-trastuzumab emtansine if possible due to the risk of elevated exposure to the cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1. Delay ado-trastuzumab emtansine treatment until nefazodone has cleared from the circulation (approximately 3 half-lives of nefazodone) when possible. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor patients for ado-trastuzumab emtansine-related adverse reactions. The cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1, is metabolized mainly by CYP3A4 and to a lesser extent by CYP3A5; nefazodone is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Formal drug interaction studies with ado-trastuzumab emtansine have not been conducted.
Nelfinavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nelfinavir with ado-trastuzumab emtansine if possible due to the risk of elevated exposure to the cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1. Delay ado-trastuzumab emtansine treatment until nelfinavir has cleared from the circulation (approximately 3 half-lives of nelfinavir) when possible. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor patients for ado-trastuzumab emtansine-related adverse reactions. The cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1, is metabolized mainly by CYP3A4 and to a lesser extent by CYP3A5; nelfinavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Formal drug interaction studies with ado-trastuzumab emtansine have not been conducted.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ritonavir with ado-trastuzumab emtansine if possible due to the risk of elevated exposure to the cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1. Delay ado-trastuzumab emtansine treatment until ritonavir has cleared from the circulation (approximately 3 half-lives of ritonavir) when possible. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor patients for ado-trastuzumab emtansine-related adverse reactions. The cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1, is metabolized mainly by CYP3A4 and to a lesser extent by CYP3A5; ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Formal drug interaction studies with ado-trastuzumab emtansine have not been conducted.
Pentosan: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of anticoagulants with ado-trastuzumab emtansine is necessary due to reports of severe and sometimes fatal hemorrhage, including intracranial bleeding, with ado-trastuzumab emtansine therapy. Consider additional monitoring when concomitant use is medically necessary. While some patients who experienced bleeding during ado-trastuzumab therapy were also receiving anticoagulation therapy, others had no known additional risk factors.
Platelet Inhibitors: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of platelet inhibitors with ado-trastuzumab emtansine is necessary due to reports of severe and sometimes fatal hemorrhage, including intracranial bleeding, with ado-trastuzumab emtansine therapy. Consider additional monitoring when concomitant use is medically necessary. While some patients who experienced bleeding during ado-trastuzumab therapy were also receiving anticoagulation therapy, others had no known additional risk factors.
Posaconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of posaconazole with ado-trastuzumab emtansine if possible due to the risk of elevated exposure to the cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1. Delay ado-trastuzumab emtansine treatment until posaconazole has cleared from the circulation (approximately 3 half-lives of posaconazole) when possible. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor patients for ado-trastuzumab emtansine-related adverse reactions. The cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1, is metabolized mainly by CYP3A4 and to a lesser extent by CYP3A5; posaconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Formal drug interaction studies with ado-trastuzumab emtansine have not been conducted.
Prasugrel: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of platelet inhibitors with ado-trastuzumab emtansine is necessary due to reports of severe and sometimes fatal hemorrhage, including intracranial bleeding, with ado-trastuzumab emtansine therapy. Consider additional monitoring when concomitant use is medically necessary. While some patients who experienced bleeding during ado-trastuzumab therapy were also receiving anticoagulation therapy, others had no known additional risk factors.
Relacorilant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of relacorilant with ado-trastuzumab emtansine if possible due to the risk of elevated exposure to the cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1. Delay ado-trastuzumab emtansine treatment until relacorilant has cleared from the circulation (approximately 3 half-lives of relacorilant) when possible. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor patients for ado-trastuzumab emtansine-related adverse reactions. The cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1, is metabolized mainly by CYP3A and to a lesser extent by CYP3A5; relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Formal drug interaction studies with ado-trastuzumab emtansine have not been conducted.
Ribociclib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ribociclib with ado-trastuzumab emtansine if possible due to the risk of elevated exposure to the cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1. Delay ado-trastuzumab emtansine treatment until ribociclib has cleared from the circulation (approximately 3 half-lives of ribociclib) when possible. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor patients for ado-trastuzumab emtansine-related adverse reactions. The cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1, is metabolized mainly by CYP3A4 and to a lesser extent by CYP3A5; ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Formal drug interaction studies with ado-trastuzumab emtansine have not been conducted.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ribociclib with ado-trastuzumab emtansine if possible due to the risk of elevated exposure to the cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1. Delay ado-trastuzumab emtansine treatment until ribociclib has cleared from the circulation (approximately 3 half-lives of ribociclib) when possible. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor patients for ado-trastuzumab emtansine-related adverse reactions. The cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1, is metabolized mainly by CYP3A4 and to a lesser extent by CYP3A5; ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Formal drug interaction studies with ado-trastuzumab emtansine have not been conducted.
Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ritonavir with ado-trastuzumab emtansine if possible due to the risk of elevated exposure to the cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1. Delay ado-trastuzumab emtansine treatment until ritonavir has cleared from the circulation (approximately 3 half-lives of ritonavir) when possible. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor patients for ado-trastuzumab emtansine-related adverse reactions. The cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1, is metabolized mainly by CYP3A4 and to a lesser extent by CYP3A5; ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Formal drug interaction studies with ado-trastuzumab emtansine have not been conducted.
Rivaroxaban: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of anticoagulants with ado-trastuzumab emtansine is necessary due to reports of severe and sometimes fatal hemorrhage, including intracranial bleeding, with ado-trastuzumab emtansine therapy. Consider additional monitoring when concomitant use is medically necessary. While some patients who experienced bleeding during ado-trastuzumab therapy were also receiving anticoagulation therapy, others had no known additional risk factors.
Saquinavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of saquinavir with ado-trastuzumab emtansine if possible due to the risk of elevated exposure to the cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1. Delay ado-trastuzumab emtansine treatment until saquinavir has cleared from the circulation (approximately 3 half-lives of saquinavir) when possible. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor patients for ado-trastuzumab emtansine-related adverse reactions. The cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1, is metabolized mainly by CYP3A4 and to a lesser extent by CYP3A5; saquinavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Formal drug interaction studies with ado-trastuzumab emtansine have not been conducted.
SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) vaccines: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) mRNA Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) Recombinant Spike Protein Nanoparticle Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
Sodium Iodide I-131: (Moderate) Monitor for bone marrow suppression during concomitant use of sodium iodide I-131 and antineoplastic agents. Concomitant use of bone marrow depressants may enhance the depression of the hematopoietic system caused by the use of large doses of sodium iodide I-131.
Ticagrelor: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of platelet inhibitors with ado-trastuzumab emtansine is necessary due to reports of severe and sometimes fatal hemorrhage, including intracranial bleeding, with ado-trastuzumab emtansine therapy. Consider additional monitoring when concomitant use is medically necessary. While some patients who experienced bleeding during ado-trastuzumab therapy were also receiving anticoagulation therapy, others had no known additional risk factors.
Tipranavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tipranavir with ado-trastuzumab emtansine if possible due to the risk of elevated exposure to the cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1. Delay ado-trastuzumab emtansine treatment until tipranavir has cleared from the circulation (approximately 3 half-lives of tipranavir) when possible. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor patients for ado-trastuzumab emtansine-related adverse reactions. The cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1, is metabolized mainly by CYP3A4 and to a lesser extent by CYP3A5; tipranavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Formal drug interaction studies with ado-trastuzumab emtansine have not been conducted.
Tirofiban: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of platelet inhibitors with ado-trastuzumab emtansine is necessary due to reports of severe and sometimes fatal hemorrhage, including intracranial bleeding, with ado-trastuzumab emtansine therapy. Consider additional monitoring when concomitant use is medically necessary. While some patients who experienced bleeding during ado-trastuzumab therapy were also receiving anticoagulation therapy, others had no known additional risk factors.
Tuberculin Purified Protein Derivative, PPD: (Moderate) Immunosuppressives may decrease the immunological response to tuberculin purified protein derivative, PPD. This suppressed reactivity can persist for up to 6 weeks after treatment discontinuation. Consider deferring the skin test until completion of the immunosuppressive therapy.
Tucatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tucatinib with ado-trastuzumab emtansine if possible due to the risk of elevated exposure to the cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1. Delay ado-trastuzumab emtansine treatment until tucatinib has cleared from the circulation (approximately 3 half-lives of tucatinib) when possible. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor patients for ado-trastuzumab emtansine-related adverse reactions. The cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1, is metabolized mainly by CYP3A4 and to a lesser extent by CYP3A5; tucatinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Formal drug interaction studies with ado-trastuzumab emtansine have not been conducted.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin with ado-trastuzumab emtansine if possible due to the risk of elevated exposure to the cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1. Delay ado-trastuzumab emtansine treatment until clarithromycin has cleared from the circulation (approximately 3 half-lives of clarithromycin) when possible. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor patients for ado-trastuzumab emtansine-related adverse reactions. The cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1, is metabolized mainly by CYP3A4 and to a lesser extent by CYP3A5; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Formal drug interaction studies with ado-trastuzumab emtansine have not been conducted.
Vorapaxar: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of platelet inhibitors with ado-trastuzumab emtansine is necessary due to reports of severe and sometimes fatal hemorrhage, including intracranial bleeding, with ado-trastuzumab emtansine therapy. Consider additional monitoring when concomitant use is medically necessary. While some patients who experienced bleeding during ado-trastuzumab therapy were also receiving anticoagulation therapy, others had no known additional risk factors.
Voriconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voriconazole with ado-trastuzumab emtansine if possible due to the risk of elevated exposure to the cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1. Delay ado-trastuzumab emtansine treatment until voriconazole has cleared from the circulation (approximately 3 half-lives of voriconazole) when possible. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor patients for ado-trastuzumab emtansine-related adverse reactions. The cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1, is metabolized mainly by CYP3A4 and to a lesser extent by CYP3A5; voriconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Formal drug interaction studies with ado-trastuzumab emtansine have not been conducted.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of anticoagulants with ado-trastuzumab emtansine is necessary due to reports of severe and sometimes fatal hemorrhage, including intracranial bleeding, with ado-trastuzumab emtansine therapy. Consider additional monitoring when concomitant use is medically necessary. While some patients who experienced bleeding during ado-trastuzumab therapy were also receiving anticoagulation therapy, others had no known additional risk factors.


Adverse Reaction
dysgeusia, dyspepsia, nausea, stomatitis, vomiting, xerostomia


Nausea is the most frequently reported upper gastrointestinal (GI) adverse reaction in breast cancer patients treated with ado-trastuzumab emtansine (n = 1,230), occurring in 40% to 42% (grade 3 or 4, 0.5% to 0.8%) of patients in 2 randomized clinical trials; comparatively, 13% (grade 3 or 4, 0.3%) of early breast cancer patients who received trastuzumab reported nausea in one of these trials (n = 720). Other upper GI adverse reactions occur less frequently with ado-trastuzumab emtansine, but grade 1 or 2 GI adverse reactions are similarly more common in patients treated with ado-trastuzumab emtansine compared to trastuzumab in the clinical trials mentioned above including vomiting (15% to 19% vs. 5%; grade 3 or 4, 0.5% to 0.8% vs. 0.3%), stomatitis (14% to 15% vs. 8%; grade 3 or 4, 0.1% to 0.2% vs. 0.1%), and xerostomia (14% to 17% vs. 1.3%; grade 3 or 4, 0.1% or less vs. 0%). Dyspepsia (4.3% to 9%) and dysgeusia (8%) were also reported in clinical trials.


abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea


Constipation (17% vs. 8%; grade 3 or 4, 0.1% vs. 0%) and abdominal pain (11% vs. 7%; grade 3 or 4, 0.4% vs. 0.3%) occurred slightly more often in patients with early breast cancer treated with ado-trastuzumab emtansine (n = 740) compared with trastuzumab (n = 720) in a randomized clinical trial; the incidence of diarrhea was similar between arms (12% vs. 13%; grade 3 or 4, 0.8% vs. 0.3%). In another randomized clinical trial of metastatic breast cancer patients treated with ado-trastuzumab emtansine (n = 490), mostly grade 1 or 2 lower GI adverse reactions occurred with a higher incidence than in the previously mentioned trial of patients with early breast cancer including constipation (27%; grade 3 or 4, 0.4%), diarrhea (24%; grade 3 or 4, 1.6%), and abdominal pain (19%; grade 3 or 4, 0.8%).


anemia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia


Thrombocytopenia has been reported in 29% to 31% (grade 3 or higher, 6% to 15%) of breast cancer patients treated with ado-trastuzumab emtansine in 2 randomized clinical trials (n = 1,230), with a nadir generally occurring by day 8 and improving to grade 1 or less (75,000 cells/mm3 or more) by the next scheduled dose. Comparatively, thrombocytopenia occurred in 2.4% (grade 3 or higher, 0.3%) of patients with early breast cancer treated with trastuzumab in one of these trials (n = 720). The incidence and severity of thrombocytopenia are higher in Asian patients both with early breast cancer (50% or less; grade 3 or higher, 19%) and metastatic breast cancer (grade 3 or higher, 45%; n = 490) who received ado-trastuzumab emtansine. Anemia (10% to 14%; grade 3 or 4, 1.1% to 4.1%) and neutropenia (7% to 8%) have also been reported in breast cancer patients who received ado-trastuzumab emtansine. The incidences of hematologic adverse reactions are higher when reported as selected laboratory abnormalities in these clinical trials. Decreased platelet count (83% vs. 51%; grade 3 or 4, 17% vs. 6%), decreased hemoglobin (60% vs. 31%; grade 3 or 4, 5% vs. 1%), and decreased neutrophils (39% vs. 24%; grade 3 or 4, 3.6% vs. 1%) were reported more often in patients with metastatic breast cancer who received ado-trastuzumab emtansine than in a patients with early breast cancer in separate randomized clinical trials. Monitor platelet counts; an interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary if thrombocytopenia occurs.


cardiotoxicity, heart failure, peripheral edema


Cardiotoxicity, (e.g., a decrease in left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) to less than 40%), has been reported in patients treated with ado-trastuzumab in clinical trials; serious cases of heart failure, with no fatal cases, have also been reported. Left ventricular dysfunction occurred in 0.4% to 3% of breast cancer patients treated with ado-trastuzumab emtansine in 2 randomized clinical trials. Based on limited data from a retrospective observational study (n = 32), 22% of patients with HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer with a baseline LVEF of 40% to 49% developed congestive heart failure or more than a 10% decrease in LVEF after treatment with ado-trastuzumab emtansine. Monitor LVEF prior to treatment and at regular intervals during treatment; an interruption or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary. Peripheral edema also occurred in 3.9% to 7% of patients who received ado-trastuzumab in clinical trials.


hypertension


Hypertension occurred in 5% to 6% of breast cancer patients treated with ado-trastuzumab emtansine (n = 1,230) in 2 randomized clinical trials; grade 3 or higher hypertension was reported in greater than 2% of patients with early breast cancer (n = 740).


blurred vision, conjunctivitis, lacrimation, xerophthalmia


Ophthalmic adverse reactions have been reported in breast cancer patients treated with ado-trastuzumab emtansine (n = 1,230) in 2 randomized clinical trials, including increased lacrimation (3.3% to 6%), xerophthalmia (3.9% to 4.5%), blurred vision (3.9% to 4.5%), and conjunctivitis (3.5% to 3.9%).


elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatic encephalopathy, hepatic failure, hepatotoxicity, hyperbilirubinemia


Hepatotoxicity, primarily as asymptomatic, transiently elevated hepatic enzymes but also as severe as hepatic failure, has been observed in clinical trials with ado-trastuzumab emtansine (n = 1,624); 3 patients with metastatic breast cancer developed fatal hepatotoxicity, including severe drug-induced liver injury and associated hepatic encephalopathy. Increased transaminases (e.g., AST, ALT, GGT, abnormal liver function) were reported as an adverse reaction in 29% to 32% (grade 3 or 4, 1.5% to 8%) and increased alkaline phosphatase in 4.7% to 8% of breast cancer patients treated with ado-trastuzumab emtansine in clinical trials; hyperbilirubinemia was also reported in 7% of patients with early breast cancer who received ado-trastuzumab emtansine (n = 740). The incidence of increased AST (79% vs. 21%; grade 3, 0.8% vs. 0.1%), increased ALT (55% vs. 21%; grade 3, 0.7% vs. 0.1%), and hyperbilirubinemia (12% vs. 4%; grade 3, 0% vs. 0.7%) were higher in patients with early breast cancer treated with ado-trastuzumab emtansine (n = 740) compared with trastuzumab (n = 720) in a randomized clinical trial. These occurrences were slightly higher in patients with metastatic breast cancer who received ado-trastuzumab emtansine in another clinical trial, including increased AST (98%; grade 3 or 4, 7.5%), increased ALT (82%; grade 3 or 4, 5.2%), and hyperbilirubinemia (17%; grade 3, 0.6%). Monitor liver function tests; an interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary for hepatotoxicity.


cirrhosis


Nodular regenerative hyperplasia (NRH), characterized by a widespread benign transformation of hepatic parenchyma into small regenerative nodules, was identified from liver biopsies of 5 patients (0.3%) treated with ado-trastuzumab emtansine in clinical trials (n = 1,684), one of whom died. Of the 4 patients who survived, 2 had early breast cancer and 2 had metastatic breast cancer. Nodular regenerative hyperplasia may lead to non-cirrhotic portal hypertension; portal hypertension was reported in 0.4% of patients with metastatic breast cancer who received ado-trastuzumab emtansine (n = 490) in one clinical trial. Consider a diagnosis of NRH in all patients with clinical symptoms of portal hypertension and/or a cirrhosis-like pattern seen on a CT scan of the liver, but with normal transaminases and no other manifestations of cirrhosis. Permanently discontinue ado-trastuzumab emtansine if NRH is diagnosed.


acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), cough, dyspnea, interstitial lung disease, pneumonitis


Cases of interstitial lung disease (ILD), including pneumonitis, some leading to acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) or fatal outcome have been reported with ado-trastuzumab emtansine treatment in clinical trials; signs and symptoms include dyspnea, cough, fatigue, and pulmonary infiltrates. Pneumonitis occurred in 0.8% to 1.2% (grade 3 or 4, 0.1%) of breast cancer patients treated with ado-trastuzumab in 2 randomized clinical trials. In patients with early breast cancer, radiation pneumonitis was reported in 1.5% to 1.8% (grade 3 or 4, 0.3%) of patients treated with ado-trastuzumab emtansine. An interruption or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary for ILD/pneumonitis. Cough (14% to 18%; grade 3 or 4, 0.1% to 0.2%) and dyspnea (8% to 12%; grade 3 or 4, 0.8% or less) have also been reported.


chills, cystitis, fever, infection


Fever was reported in 10% to 19% of breast cancer patients treated with ado-trastuzumab emtansine (n = 1,230) in 2 randomized clinical trials). Additionally, 9% to 10% (grade 3 or 4, 0.3% or less) of patients reported a urinary tract infection or cystitis, and 5% to 8% reported chills.


anaphylactoid reactions, bronchospasm, flushing, hypotension, infusion-related reactions, sinus tachycardia, wheezing


Infusion-related reactions, characterized by flushing, chills, fever, dyspnea, hypotension, wheezing, bronchospasm, and/or sinus tachycardia, have been reported in 1.4% to 1.6% of breast cancer patients treated with ado-trastuzumab emtansine in 2 randomized clinical trials. These reactions resolved over the course of several hours to a day after the infusion was terminated in most patients, although there was one case of serious hypersensitivity/anaphylactoid reactions reported. Slow or interrupt the infusion rate of ado-trastuzumab emtansine if an infusion-related reaction occurs; permanently discontinue therapy if the reaction is life-threatening. Ado-trastuzumab hypersensitivity was reported in 2.2% to 2.7% of patients.


antibody formation


Antibody formation has been reported after ado-trastuzumab therapy. Anti-drug antibodies (ADA) occurred in 5% of patients treated with single-agent ado-trastuzumab emtansine in a pooled population; neutralizing antibodies were detected in 45% of patients who were ADA positive. Due to the low incidence of anti-drug antibodies, conclusions cannot be made regarding the impact of these antibodies on the pharmacokinetics, safety, and efficacy of ado-trastuzumab emtansine. The presence of ado-trastuzumab emtansine in patient serum at the time of sampling may interfere with the ability of this assay to detect anti-ado-trastuzumab emtansine antibodies; as a result, data may not accurately reflect the true incidence.


arthralgia, back pain, bone pain, muscle cramps, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia


Musculoskeletal pain, including muscle spasms (muscle cramps), musculoskeletal chest pain, back pain, pain in extremities, and bone pain, was reported in 30% to 36% (grade 3 or 4, 0.7% to 1.8%) of breast cancer patients treated with ado-trastuzumab emtansine (n = 1,230) in 2 randomized clinical trials. Additionally, myalgia (14% to 15%; grade 3 or 4, 0.4% to 0.6%) and arthralgia (19% to 26%; grade 3 or 4, 0.1% to 0.6%) have been reported.


paresthesias, peripheral neuropathy


Peripheral neuropathy, predominantly sensory but including peripheral motor neuropathy and paresthesias, has been reported in 26.7% (grade 3 or higher, 1.6%) of patients treated with ado-trastuzumab emtansine in clinical trials (n = 1,624). The incidence was similar in patients with early breast cancer (n = 740) compared to those with metastatic breast cancer (n = 490) in separate randomized clinical trials (32% vs. 21%; grade 3 or higher, 1.6% vs. 2.2%). Comparatively, 17% (grade 3 or higher, 0.1%) of patients with early breast cancer who received trastuzumab (n = 720) reported peripheral neuropathy in one of these trials. Clinically monitor patients on an ongoing basis for signs or symptoms of neurotoxicity; an interruption of therapy is necessary for grade 3 or higher peripheral neuropathy.


hypokalemia


Hypokalemia was reported in 7% to 10% (grade 3 or 4, 2.7%) of breast cancer patients treated with ado-trastuzumab emtansine (n = 1,230) in 2 randomized clinical trials. As an abnormal laboratory parameter, decreased potassium was reported in 26% to 33% (grade 3 or 4, 2.5% to 3%) of patients who received ado-trastuzumab emtansine. Comparatively, decreased potassium occurred in 9% (grade 3 or 4, 0.8%) of early breast cancer patients who received trastuzumab (n = 720) in one of these trials.


pruritus, rash


A mild rash (1.1% to 12%) and pruritus (6% to 7%) have been reported in breast cancer patients treated with ado-trastuzumab emtansine (n = 1,230) in 2 randomized clinical trials.


erythema, injection site reaction, skin irritation, skin necrosis, tissue necrosis


An injection site reaction secondary to extravasation has been observed in clinical trials. These reactions, including erythema, tenderness, skin irritation, pain, or swelling at the infusion site, are typically observed within 24 hours of infusion and are usually mild; skin necrosis/tissue necrosis after extravasation has been reported in postmarketing experience. Specific treatment for an extravasation of ado-trastuzumab is unknown. Closely monitor the infusion site for possible subcutaneous infiltration during administration.


bleeding, epistaxis, GI bleeding, intracranial bleeding


Cases of bleeding and serious hemorrhagic events including intracranial bleeding, pulmonary hemorrhage, and GI bleeding, have been reported with ado-trastuzumab emtansine treatment in clinical trials; some events have had fatal outcomes. Hemorrhage occurred in 29% to 32% (grade 3 or higher, 0.4% to 1.8%) of breast cancer patients treated with ado-trastuzumab emtansine in 2 randomized clinical trials (n = 1,230); in one of these trials, hemorrhage occurred in 10% (grade 3 or higher, 0.3%) of patients with early breast cancer who received trastuzumab (n = 720). Epistaxis has additionally occurred in 22% to 23% (grade 3 or 4, 0.2% or less) of breast cancer patients treated with ado-trastuzumab emtansine.


teratogenesis


Cases of oligohydramnios and oligohydramnios sequence resulting in teratogenesis (e.g., pulmonary hypoplasia and skeletal abnormalities) and neonatal death has been reported in postmarketing surveillance of trastuzumab, either alone or in combination with chemotherapy. In some case reports, the amniotic fluid index increased after trastuzumab was stopped; in one case, trastuzumab therapy resumed after amniotic index improved, and oligohydramnios recurred. Additionally, DM1, the cytotoxic component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, can cause embryo-fetal toxicity based on its mechanism of action. If oligohydramnios occurs, perform fetal testing appropriate for gestational age and consistent with community standards of care.


tumor lysis syndrome (TLS)


Tumor lysis syndrome (TLS) has been reported in postmarketing experience with ado-trastuzumab emtansine.


dizziness, headache, insomnia


Headache (28%; grade 3 or 4, 0.8% or less), dizziness (10%; grade 3 or 4, 0.1% to 0.4%), and insomnia (12% to 14%; grade 3 or 4, 0.4% or less) have been reported in breast cancer patients treated with ado-trastuzumab emtansine (n = 1,230) in 2 randomized clinical trials.


asthenia, fatigue


Fatigue was reported more often in patients with early breast cancer who received ado-trastuzumab emtansine (n = 740) compared with trastuzumab (n = 720) in a randomized clinical trial (50% vs. 34%; grade 3 or 4, 1.1% vs. 0.1%); asthenia was additionally reported in 0.4% of patients who received ado-trastuzumab emtansine. In a separate randomized clinical trial of patients with metastatic breast cancer, fatigue was reported in 36% (grade 3 or 4, 2.5%) and asthenia in 18% (grade 3 or 4, 0.4%) those who received ado-trastuzumab emtansine (n = 490).


infertility


Based on the results of animal studies, ado-trastuzumab emtansine may cause male and female infertility. It is unknown whether these effects are reversible.


Description

Ado-trastuzumab emtansine is a HER2-targeted antibody-drug conjugate (ADC) that contains the humanized anti-HER2 IgG1, trastuzumab, covalently linked to the microtubule inhibitory drug, DM1 (a derivative of maytansine) by a stable thioether linker MCC (4-[N-maleimidomethyl] cyclohexane-1-carboxylate). Emtansine refers to the MCC-DM1 conjugate. It is indicated for the adjuvant treatment of patients with HER2-positive early breast cancer with residual invasive disease after neoadjuvant taxane and trastuzumab-based therapy, as well as for the treatment of patients with HER2-positive, metastatic breast cancer who have previously received trastuzumab and a taxane, either separately or in combination. Before treatment with ado-trastuzumab emtansine, patients should have either received prior therapy for metastatic disease or developed disease recurrence during or within 6 months of completing adjuvant therapy. Do not substitute ado-trastuzumab emtansine for or with other trastuzumab-based products.

Mechanism Of Action

Ado-trastuzumab emtansine is a HER2-targeted antibody-drug conjugate. Trastuzumab, a humanized anti-HER2 IgG1 antibody, is joined by a stable linker to DM1, a small molecule microtubule inhibitor. The stable linker is designed to keep DM1 attached to trastuzumab until taken up by a HER2-positive cell. Upon binding to sub-domain IV of the HER2 receptor, ado-trastuzumab emtansine undergoes receptor-mediated internalization and subsequent lysosomal degradation, resulting in intracellular release of DM1. Once inside the cell, DM1 binds to tubulin, disrupting the microtubule networks in the cell and resulting in apoptosis. In addition, in vitro studies have shown that similar to trastuzumab, ado-trastuzumab emtansine inhibits HER2 receptor signaling, mediates antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity, and inhibits shedding of the HER2 extracellular domain in human breast cancer cells that overexpress HER2.

Pharmacokinetics

Ado-trastuzumab emtansine is administered by intravenous (IV) injection. In vitro studies indicate that DM1 is 93% bound to plasma proteins. In data from a phase 1 study and a population pharmacokinetic analysis using pooled data from 5 trials in patients with breast cancer, ado-trastuzumab emtansine exhibited a linear two-compartment model with first-order elimination from the central compartment. The central volume of distribution (Vd) was 3.13 liters. Ado-trastuzumab emtansine clearance is 0.68 L/day, with an elimination half-life of approximately 4 days. There was no accumulation after repeated dosing every 3 weeks.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A4/5, P-glycoprotein (P-gp)
Formal drug interaction studies have not been conducted with ado-trastuzumab emtansine. However, in vitro, the cytotoxic small molecule component of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1, is metabolized mainly by CYP3A4/5; DM1 is also a substrate of P-gp in vitro. Ado-trastuzumab emtansine catabolites have been detected at low levels in human plasma, including MCC-DM1, Lys-MCC-DM1, and DM1. DM1 does not inhibit or induce major CYP450 enzymes in vitro.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Intravenous Route

After IV administration, maximum concentrations (Cmax) of the ado-trastuzumab emtansine antibody-drug conjugate (ADC) are typically observed close to the end of the infusion. In patients with metastatic breast cancer, the mean (standard deviation) Cmax of the ADC during cycle 1 was 83.4 (16.5) mcg/mL, and for DM1 was 4.61 (1.61) ng/mL. In patients with early breast cancer, the cycle 1 Cmax of the ADC was 72.6 (24.3) mcg/mL and for DM1 was 4.71 (2.25) mcg/mL. A population pharmacokinetic analysis suggested no difference in ado-trastuzumab emtansine exposure based on disease status (adjuvant vs. metastatic setting).

Hepatic Impairment

Plasma concentrations of the cytotoxic small molecule of ado-trastuzumab emtansine, DM1, and DM1-containing catabolites (Lys-MCC-DM1 and MCC-DM1) were low and comparable between patients with (Child-Pugh class A, n = 10; Child-Pugh class B, n = 8) and without (n = 10) hepatic impairment after a single dose of ado-trastuzumab emtansine administered to patients with metastatic HER2-positive breast cancer. The AUC of ado-trastuzumab emtansine in cycle 1 is approximately 38% lower in patients with mild (Child-Pugh class A) hepatic impairment compared with patients with normal hepatic function, and 67% lower in patients with moderate (Child-Pugh class B) hepatic impairment. At cycle 3 after repeated dosing, AUCs were similar between groups. Ado-trastuzumab emtansine has not been studied in patients with severe (Child-Pugh class C) hepatic impairment. Based on a population pharmacokinetic analysis, AST levels had a statistically significant effect on the clearance of ado-trastuzumab emtansine; however, the magnitude of effect was unlikely to be clinically meaningful.

Renal Impairment

Based on a population analysis, the pharmacokinetics of ado-trastuzumab emtansine are not affected by mild to moderate renal impairment (CrCl 30 to 89 mL/min, n = 307) as compared to normal renal function (CrCL 90 mL/min or more, n = 361). Data from only one patient with severe renal impairment (CrCl less than 30 mL/min) is available.

Geriatric

Based on population pharmacokinetic analysis, age (less than 65 years, n = 577; 65 to 75 years, n = 78; greater than 75 years, n = 16) does not have a clinically meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of ado-trastuzumab emtansine.

Ethnic Differences

Based on population pharmacokinetic analysis, race (Asian patients (n = 73); non-Asian patients (n = 598)) does not have a clinically meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of ado-trastuzumab emtansine.

Obesity

Based on a population pharmacokinetic analysis, body weight was the only covariate to likely to have a statistically significant and clinically meaningful effect on the exposure of ado-trastuzumab emtansine.

Other

Based on a population pharmacokinetic analysis, the sum of longest diameter of target lesions by RECIST, HER2 extracellular domain (ECD) concentrations, albumin, and baseline trastuzumab concentrations were identified as having a statistically significant effect on the clearance of ado-trastuzumab emtansine; however, the magnitude of effect on ado-trastuzumab exposure was unlikely to be clinically meaningful.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
Hazardous Drugs Classification
NIOSH 2024 List: Table 1
Observe and exercise appropriate precautions for handling, preparation, administration, and disposal of hazardous drugs.
Use double chemotherapy gloves and a protective gown. Prepare in a biological safety cabinet or compounding aseptic containment isolator with a closed system drug transfer device. Eye/face and respiratory protection may be needed during preparation and administration.
Emetic Risk
Low
Administer routine antiemetic prophylaxis prior to treatment.
Extravasation Risk
Nonvesicant
Reactions are usually mild, consisting of erythema, tenderness, skin irritation, pain, or swelling at the infusion site. Closely monitor the infusion site for possible infiltration during drug administration.
Specific treatment for extravasation is unknown.


Injectable Administration

Visually inspect parenteral products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.

Intravenous Administration


Do not mix with or administer as an infusion with other IV products.
Do not substitute ado-trastuzumab emtansine for or with other trastuzumab-based products.
Administer as an intravenous (IV) infusion with a 0.2 or 0.22-micron in-line polyethersulfone (PES) filter. Do not administer as an IV push or bolus.
If a dose is delayed or missed, administer as soon as possible; do not wait until the next planned cycle. Adjust the schedule of administration to maintain a 3-week interval between doses. Administer the infusion at the dose and rate tolerated in the most recent infusion.
 
Reconstitution
100 mg vial: Slowly inject 5 mL of Sterile Water for Injection or 0.45% Sodium Chloride for Injection into the vial; direct the stream toward the wall of the vial and not directly at the cake or powder.
160 mg vial: Slowly inject 8 mL of Sterile Water for Injection or 0.45% Sodium Chloride for Injection into the vial; direct the stream toward the wall of the vial and not directly at the cake or powder.
Gently swirl to aid in dissolution; do not shake. The final concentration of both the 100-mg and 160-mg vial is 20 mg/mL.
Storage: Reconstituted vials should be used immediately as they do not contain preservatives; however, they may be stored under refrigeration (2 to 8 degrees C, or 36 to 46 degrees F) for up to 120 hours (5 days). Do not freeze.
 
Dilution
Dilute in 250 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection; do not use 5% Dextrose solution.
Gently invert the bag to mix; do not shake.
Storage: Diluted bags may be refrigerated (2 to 8 degrees C, or 36 to 46 degrees F) for up to 24 hours in addition to storage time allowed for reconstituted vials. Do not freeze.
 
Intravenous Infusion
Closely monitor the infusion site for possible subcutaneous infiltration during drug administration.
First infusion: Administer over 90 minutes; slow or interrupt the infusion if the patient develops an infusion-related reaction. Patients should be observed for at least 90 minutes following the initial dose for fever, chills, or other infusion-related reactions. Permanently discontinue ado-trastuzumab emtansine for life-threatening infusion-related reactions.
Subsequent infusions: Administer over 30 minutes if prior infusions were well tolerated; slow or interrupt the infusion if the patient develops an infusion-related reaction. Patients should be observed for at least 30 minutes after the infusion. Permanently discontinue ado-trastuzumab emtansine for life-threatening infusion-related reactions.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

3.6 mg/kg IV every 3 weeks.

Geriatric

3.6 mg/kg IV every 3 weeks.

Adolescents

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Children

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

Kadcyla 100mg Powder for Injection

Kadcyla 160mg Powder for Injection

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Baseline Hepatic Impairment
Mild (Child-Pugh A) to moderate (Child-Pugh B) hepatic impairment: No dosage adjustment is necessary.
Severe (Child-Pugh C) hepatic impairment: Ado-trastuzumab emtansine has not been studied in this patient population.
 
Treatment-Related Hepatotoxicity
 
Nodular Regenerative Hyperplasia (NRH)
Permanently discontinue ado-trastuzumab emtansine.
 
Hyperbilirubinemia, Early Breast Cancer
Total bilirubin 1.1 to 2 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) on the day of scheduled treatment: Do not administer ado-trastuzumab emtansine. When total bilirubin recovers to 1 times ULN or less, reduce the dose of ado-trastuzumab emtansine by one dose level (3.6 mg/kg; 3 mg/kg; 2.4 mg/kg) and resume treatment. Do not re-escalate the dose of ado-trastuzumab emtansine after a dose reduction is made.
Total bilirubin greater than 2 times ULN at any time: Discontinue ado-trastuzumab emtansine.
Hyperbilirubinemia, Metastatic Breast Cancer
Grade 2 (total bilirubin 1.6 to 3 times ULN): Do not administer ado-trastuzumab emtansine. When total bilirubin recovers to grade 1 or less, resume treatment at the same dose level.
Grade 3 (total bilirubin 3.1 to 10 times ULN): Do not administer ado-trastuzumab emtansine. When total bilirubin recovers to grade 1 or less, reduce the dose of ado-trastuzumab emtansine by one dose level (3.6 mg/kg; 3 mg/kg; 2.4 mg/kg) and resume treatment. Do not re-escalate the dose of ado-trastuzumab emtansine after a dose reduction is made.
Grade 4 (total bilirubin 10.1 or more times ULN): Discontinue ado-trastuzumab emtansine.
 
Increased Transaminases, Early Breast Cancer
Grade 2 increases in AST (3.1 to 5 times ULN) on the scheduled day of treatment: Do not administer ado-trastuzumab emtansine. When AST recovers to grade 1 or less, resume treatment at the same dose.
Grade 2 increases in ALT (3.1 to 5 times ULN) on the scheduled day of treatment: Do not administer ado-trastuzumab emtansine. When ALT recovers to grade 1 or less, reduce the dose of ado-trastuzumab by one dose level (3.6 mg/kg; 3 mg/kg; 2.4 mg/kg) and resume treatment. Do not re-escalate the dose of ado-trastuzumab emtansine after a dose reduction is made.
Grade 3 increases in ALT/AST (5.1 to 20 times ULN) on the scheduled day of treatment: Do not administer ado-trastuzumab emtansine. When ALT/AST recovers to grade 1 or less, reduce the dose of ado-trastuzumab by one dose level (3.6 mg/kg; 3 mg/kg; 2.4 mg/kg) and resume treatment. Do not re-escalate the dose of ado-trastuzumab emtansine after a dose reduction is made.
Grade 4 increases in ALT/AST at any time (greater than 20 times ULN): Discontinue ado-trastuzumab emtansine.
Increased Transaminases, Metastatic Breast Cancer
Grade 2 increases in AST/ALT: Continue treatment at the same dose level.
Grade 3 increases in ALT/AST: Do not administer ado-trastuzumab emtansine. When ALT/AST recovers to grade 2 or less, reduce the dose of ado-trastuzumab by one dose level (3.6 mg/kg; 3 mg/kg; 2.4 mg/kg) and resume treatment. Do not re-escalate the dose of ado-trastuzumab emtansine after a dose reduction is made.
Grade 4 increases in ALT/AST: Discontinue ado-trastuzumab emtansine.
 
Drug-Induced Liver Injury (DILI), Metastatic Breast Cancer
ALT/AST greater than 3 times ULN and concomitant total bilirubin greater than 2 times ULN: Permanently discontinue ado-trastuzumab emtansine in the absence of another likely cause for the elevation of liver enzymes and bilirubin (e.g., liver metastasis or concomitant medication).


Renal Impairment

Baseline Renal Impairment
Mild to moderate renal impairment (CrCL 30 to 90 mL/min): No dosage adjustment is necessary.
Severe renal impairment (CrCL less than 30 mL/min): No dose adjustment can be recommended due to limited data available.


© 2026 Elsevier