=== vinCRIStine Liposomal (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 3368)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: NOTE:

Routes: intravenous; Common adult doses: Dosage not established.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): arthralgia, asthenia, hyperesthesia, hypoesthesia, hyporeflexia, hypotension, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, paresthesias, peripheral neuropathy, weakness, anemia, fever, infection, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, hyperkalemia, hyperphosphatemia, hyperuricemia, hypocalcemia, tumor lysis syndrome (tls), ileus, elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatic failure, hyperbilirubinemia, erythema, injection site reaction, phlebitis, skin irritation, tissue necrosis

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. Hazardous drug: NIOSH 2024 List: Table 1 NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market.

Brand Names
  - Marqibo

Indication Specific Dosing
  General Information
  NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Intravenous dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        Dosage not established.
    Heading
    For the treatment of Philadelphia chromosome-negative acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL)† in second or greater relapse or that has progressed after 2 or more anti-leukemia therapies

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    intrathecal administration
    General Information
    Intrathecal administration of liposomal vincristine is contraindicated. Death has occurred with intrathecal use. Liposomal vincristine is only for intravenous use.
    Headline
    demyelinating Charcot-Marie-Tooth, neuromuscular disease
    General Information
    Liposomal vincristine is contraindicated in patients with demyelinating conditions including demyelinating Charcot-Marie-Tooth syndrome. Neurotoxicity is a dose-limiting toxicity of liposomal vincristine therapy; monitor patients for the development of neurologic toxicity. Use liposomal vincristine with caution in patients with pre-existing neuromuscular disease and when given with other neurotoxic drugs; these patients may be at increased risk for developing neurotoxicity. Patients with preexisting severe peripheral neuropathy should be treated only after careful risk-benefit assessment. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary based on the severity of neurotoxicity.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Liposomal vincristine may cause fetal harm if used during pregnancy, based on its mechanism of action and data from animal studies. Females of reproductive potential should avoid pregnancy while receiving liposomal vincristine. Women who use liposomal vincristine during pregnancy or who become pregnant while taking this drug should be apprised of the potential hazard to a fetus. Fetal malformations (e.g., skeletal and visceral abnormalities), decreased fetal weights, and an increased number of early resorptions and post-implantation losses were observed following the administration of liposomal vincristine at doses of 0.022 to 0.09 mg/kg per day in pregnant rats.
    Headline
    contraception requirements, infertility, male-mediated teratogenicity, pregnancy testing, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel patients about the reproductive risk and contraception requirements during liposomal vincristine treatment. Females of reproductive potential should receive pregnancy testing prior to starting therapy. These patients should avoid pregnancy and use effective contraception during therapy and for 6 months after the last liposomal vincristine dose. Due to the risk of male-mediated teratogenicity, male patients with a female partner of reproductive potential should use effective contraception during therapy and for 3 months after the last liposomal vincristine dose. There is a risk of infertility in male and female patients who receive liposomal vincristine, based on data from animal studies and in humans  who received non-liposomal vincristine. Gonadal dysfunction has been reported in both male and female post-pubertal patients who received multi-agent chemotherapy, including non-liposomal vincristine sulfate; fertility recover may occur in some patients.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    The presence of vincristine or its metabolites in human milk or the effects of vincristine on the breastfed child or milk production are not known. Due to the potential for serious adverse reactions in the nursing child, breast-feeding is not recommended during liposomal vincristine therapy or for at least 1 week after the last dose.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Liposomal vincristine may cause fetal harm if used during pregnancy, based on its mechanism of action and data from animal studies. Females of reproductive potential should avoid pregnancy while receiving liposomal vincristine. Women who use liposomal vincristine during pregnancy or who become pregnant while taking this drug should be apprised of the potential hazard to a fetus. Fetal malformations (e.g., skeletal and visceral abnormalities), decreased fetal weights, and an increased number of early resorptions and post-implantation losses were observed following the administration of liposomal vincristine at doses of 0.022 to 0.09 mg/kg per day in pregnant rats.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Counsel patients about the reproductive risk and contraception requirements during liposomal vincristine treatment. Females of reproductive potential should receive pregnancy testing prior to starting therapy. These patients should avoid pregnancy and use effective contraception during therapy and for 6 months after the last liposomal vincristine dose. Due to the risk of male-mediated teratogenicity, male patients with a female partner of reproductive potential should use effective contraception during therapy and for 3 months after the last liposomal vincristine dose. There is a risk of infertility in male and female patients who receive liposomal vincristine, based on data from animal studies and in humans  who received non-liposomal vincristine. Gonadal dysfunction has been reported in both male and female post-pubertal patients who received multi-agent chemotherapy, including non-liposomal vincristine sulfate; fertility recover may occur in some patients.

Interactions
Abrocitinib: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of abrocitinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Adagrasib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vincristine with adagrasib due to increased plasma concentrations of vincristine, resulting in an earlier onset and/or increased severity of neuromuscular side effects. Vincristine is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Aluminum Hydroxide: (Major) Antacids may interact with urinary acidifiers by alkalinizing the urine. Frequent use of these high dose antacids should be avoided in patients receiving urinary acidifiers.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Carbonate: (Major) Antacids may interact with urinary acidifiers by alkalinizing the urine. Frequent use of these high dose antacids should be avoided in patients receiving urinary acidifiers.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Major) Antacids may interact with urinary acidifiers by alkalinizing the urine. Frequent use of these high dose antacids should be avoided in patients receiving urinary acidifiers.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Major) Antacids may interact with urinary acidifiers by alkalinizing the urine. Frequent use of these high dose antacids should be avoided in patients receiving urinary acidifiers.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Trisilicate: (Major) Antacids may interact with urinary acidifiers by alkalinizing the urine. Frequent use of these high dose antacids should be avoided in patients receiving urinary acidifiers.
Amiodarone: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of amiodarone is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and amiodarone is a P-gp inhibitor.
Amobarbital: (Major) Vincristine is a substrate for cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4. Agents that induce CYP 3A4 may increase the metabolism of vincristine and decrease the efficacy of drug, including barbiturates. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently should be monitored for possible loss of vincristine efficacy.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Increased concentrations of vincristine are likely. Consider if alternative antibiotic therapy is appropriate. Monitor for vincristine-related side effects, including neurotoxicity, if these drugs must be used together. Clarithromycin is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4 and also inhibits P-gp. Vincristine is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate. Postmarketing reports of interactions, including serious toxicity, between clarithromycin or similar macrolides and vinca alkaloids have been noted.
Antacids: (Major) Antacids may interact with urinary acidifiers by alkalinizing the urine. Frequent use of these high dose antacids should be avoided in patients receiving urinary acidifiers.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vincristine with apalutamide due to decreased plasma concentrations of vincristine. Vincristine is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Moderate) Aprepitant, fosaprepitant is indicated for the prophylaxis of chemotherapy-induced nausea/vomiting and may be used in combination with vincristine. However, use caution and monitor for a possible increase in non-emetogenic vincristine-related adverse effects for several days after administration of a multi-day aprepitant regimen. Vincristine is a CYP3A4 substrate. Aprepitant, when administered as a 3-day oral regimen (125 mg/80 mg/80 mg), is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and inducer and theoretically could increase plasma concentrations of vincristine. For example, a 5-day oral aprepitant regimen increased the AUC of another CYP3A4 substrate, midazolam (single dose), by 2.3-fold on day 1 and by 3.3-fold on day 5. After a 3-day oral aprepitant regimen, the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1, 4, 8, and 15) increased by 25% on day 4, and then decreased by 19% and 4% on days 8 and 15, respectively. As a single 125 mg or 40 mg oral dose, the inhibitory effect of aprepitant on CYP3A4 is weak, with the AUC of midazolam increased by 1.5-fold and 1.2-fold, respectively. After administration, fosaprepitant is rapidly converted to aprepitant and shares many of the same drug interactions. However, as a single 150 mg intravenous dose, fosaprepitant only weakly inhibits CYP3A4 for a duration of 2 days; there is no evidence of CYP3A4 induction. Fosaprepitant 150 mg IV as a single dose increased the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1 and 4) by approximately 1.8-fold on day 1; there was no effect on day 4. Less than a 2-fold increase in the midazolam AUC is not considered clinically important.
Armodafinil: (Minor) Vincristine is a substrate for cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4. Agents that induce CYP 3A4 may increase the metabolism of vincristine and decrease the efficacy of drug, including armodafinil (in vitro). Patients receiving these drugs concurrently should be monitored for possible loss of vincristine efficacy.
Asciminib: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of asciminib is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and asciminib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Asparaginase Erwinia chrysanthemi: (Moderate) Use L-asparaginase and vincristine together with caution; increased vincristine-related toxicity may occur. L-asparaginase administered before or concurrently with vincristine may reduce the hepatic clearance of vincristine. If these drugs are used together, administer vincristine 12 to 24 hours before L-asparaginase to minimize toxicity.
Aspirin, ASA: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Vincristine is a substrate for cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4. Agents that induce CYP 3A4 may increase the metabolism of vincristine and decrease the efficacy of drug, including barbiturates. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently should be monitored for possible loss of vincristine efficacy. (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Aspirin, ASA; Dipyridamole: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Atazanavir: (Major) The plasma concentrations of vincristine may be significantly elevated when administered concurrently with protease inhibitors. Consideration should be given to temporarily withholding the regimen in patients who develop significant hematological or gastrointestinal toxicity when protease inhibitors are coadministered with vincristine. Vincristine is a CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate; protease inhibitors are CYP3A4 inhibitors and some also inhibit P-gp. If the antiretroviral regimen needs to be withheld for a prolonged period, consider use of a revised regimen that does not include a CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vincristine with cobicistat due to increased plasma concentrations of vincristine, resulting in an earlier onset and/or increased severity of neuromuscular side effects. Vincristine is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. (Major) The plasma concentrations of vincristine may be significantly elevated when administered concurrently with protease inhibitors. Consideration should be given to temporarily withholding the regimen in patients who develop significant hematological or gastrointestinal toxicity when protease inhibitors are coadministered with vincristine. Vincristine is a CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate; protease inhibitors are CYP3A4 inhibitors and some also inhibit P-gp. If the antiretroviral regimen needs to be withheld for a prolonged period, consider use of a revised regimen that does not include a CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor.
Azithromycin: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of azithromycin is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and azithromycin is a P-gp inhibitor.
Bacillus Calmette-Guerin Vaccine, BCG: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to vincristine recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving vincristine. At least 2 weeks before initiation of vincristine therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Vincristine recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Barbiturates: (Major) Vincristine is a substrate for cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4. Agents that induce CYP 3A4 may increase the metabolism of vincristine and decrease the efficacy of drug, including barbiturates. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently should be monitored for possible loss of vincristine efficacy.
Belumosudil: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of belumosudil is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and belumosudil is a P-gp inhibitor.
Bexarotene: (Moderate) Vincristine is a substrate for cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4. Agents that induce CYP3A4 may increase the metabolism of vincristine and decrease the efficacy of drug, including bexarotene. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently with vincristine should be monitored for possible loss of vincristine efficacy.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of lenacapavir is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and lenacapavir is a P-gp inhibitor.
Bismuth Subsalicylate: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Bortezomib: (Minor) Monitor patients for the development of peripheral neuropathy when receiving bortezomib in combination with other drugs that can cause peripheral neuropathy like vincristine; the risk of peripheral neuropathy may be additive.
Brigatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increased incidence or earlier onset of vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with brigatinib is necessary. Vincristine is a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Brigatinib inhibits P-gp in vitro and may have the potential to increase concentrations of P-gp substrates.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Vincristine is a substrate for cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4. Agents that induce CYP 3A4 may increase the metabolism of vincristine and decrease the efficacy of drug, including barbiturates. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently should be monitored for possible loss of vincristine efficacy.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Vincristine is a substrate for cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4. Agents that induce CYP 3A4 may increase the metabolism of vincristine and decrease the efficacy of drug, including barbiturates. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently should be monitored for possible loss of vincristine efficacy.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Vincristine is a substrate for cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4. Agents that induce CYP 3A4 may increase the metabolism of vincristine and decrease the efficacy of drug, including barbiturates. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently should be monitored for possible loss of vincristine efficacy.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Vincristine is a substrate for cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4. Agents that induce CYP 3A4 may increase the metabolism of vincristine and decrease the efficacy of drug, including barbiturates. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently should be monitored for possible loss of vincristine efficacy. (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Caffeine: (Major) Sodium phosphates should be used with caution in patients using concomitant medications that lower the seizure threshold like psychostimulants.
Cannabidiol: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of cannabidiol is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and cannabidiol is a P-gp inhibitor.
Capmatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of capmatinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and capmatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
carBAMazepine: (Moderate) Vincristine is a substrate for cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4. Agents that induce CYP3A4 such as carbamazepine may increase the metabolism of vincristine and decrease the efficacy of drug. In addition, myelosuppressive antineoplastic agents possess hematologic toxicities similar to carbamazepine, and should be used concomitantly with caution.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) Increased concentrations of vincristine may occur if it is coadministered with carvedilol; exercise caution. Carvedilol is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inhibitor and vincristine is a P-gp substrate.
Ceritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vincristine with ceritinib due to increased plasma concentrations of vincristine, resulting in an earlier onset and/or increased severity of neuromuscular side effects. Vincristine is a CYP3A4 substrate and ceritinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Chikungunya Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to vincristine recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving vincristine. At least 2 weeks before initiation of vincristine therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Vincristine recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Chloramphenicol: (Major) Chloramphenicol inhibits CYP3A4, and vincristine is a CYP3A substrate. Coadministration could increase exposure to vincristine; monitor patients for increased side effects if these drugs are given together.
Cholera Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the live cholera vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to cholera bacteria after receiving the vaccine.
Choline Salicylate; Magnesium Salicylate: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Cimetidine: (Moderate) Cimetidine is a mild CYP3A4 inhibitor, and vincristine is a CYP3A substrate. Coadministration could increase exposure to vincristine; monitor patients for increased side effects if these drugs are given together.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Increased concentrations of vincristine are likely. Consider if alternative antibiotic therapy is appropriate. Monitor for vincristine-related side effects, including neurotoxicity, if these drugs must be used together. Clarithromycin is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4 and also inhibits P-gp. Vincristine is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate. Postmarketing reports of interactions, including serious toxicity, between clarithromycin or similar macrolides and vinca alkaloids have been noted.
cloZAPine: (Major) It is unclear if concurrent use of other drugs known to cause neutropenia (e.g., antineoplastic agents) increases the risk or severity of clozapine-induced neutropenia. Because there is no strong rationale for avoiding clozapine in patients treated with these drugs, consider increased absolute neutrophil count (ANC) monitoring and consult the treating oncologist.
Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vincristine with cobicistat due to increased plasma concentrations of vincristine, resulting in an earlier onset and/or increased severity of neuromuscular side effects. Vincristine is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Conivaptan: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of conivaptan is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and conivaptan is a P-gp inhibitor.
Corticosteroids (selected systemic): (Minor) Use sodium phosphate cautiously with mineralocorticoids as concurrent use can cause hypernatremia in some patients.
Corticotropin, ACTH: (Minor) Use sodium phosphate cautiously with mineralocorticoids as concurrent use can cause hypernatremia in some patients.
Cortisone: (Minor) Use sodium phosphate cautiously with mineralocorticoids as concurrent use can cause hypernatremia in some patients.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Use cyclosporine and vincristine together with caution; concomitant use may result in increased vincristine plasma concentrations and increased vincristine toxicity. Cyclosporine is a CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inhibitor and vincristine is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate. Early onset and/or increased severity of neuromuscular adverse events have been reported when vincristine was administered with a strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor.
Dabrafenib: (Moderate) Vincristine is a substrate for cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4. Agents that induce CYP3A4 may increase the metabolism of vincristine and decrease the efficacy of drug, including dabrafenib. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently with vincristine should be monitored for possible loss of vincristine efficacy.
Danicopan: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of danicopan is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and danicopan is a P-gp inhibitor.
Daraxonrasib: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of daraxonrasib is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and daraxonrasib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Daridorexant: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of daridorexant is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and daridorexant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Darunavir: (Major) The plasma concentrations of vincristine may be significantly elevated when administered concurrently with protease inhibitors. Consideration should be given to temporarily withholding the regimen in patients who develop significant hematological or gastrointestinal toxicity when protease inhibitors are coadministered with vincristine. Vincristine is a CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate; protease inhibitors are CYP3A4 inhibitors and some also inhibit P-gp. If the antiretroviral regimen needs to be withheld for a prolonged period, consider use of a revised regimen that does not include a CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vincristine with cobicistat due to increased plasma concentrations of vincristine, resulting in an earlier onset and/or increased severity of neuromuscular side effects. Vincristine is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. (Major) The plasma concentrations of vincristine may be significantly elevated when administered concurrently with protease inhibitors. Consideration should be given to temporarily withholding the regimen in patients who develop significant hematological or gastrointestinal toxicity when protease inhibitors are coadministered with vincristine. Vincristine is a CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate; protease inhibitors are CYP3A4 inhibitors and some also inhibit P-gp. If the antiretroviral regimen needs to be withheld for a prolonged period, consider use of a revised regimen that does not include a CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vincristine with cobicistat due to increased plasma concentrations of vincristine, resulting in an earlier onset and/or increased severity of neuromuscular side effects. Vincristine is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. (Major) The plasma concentrations of vincristine may be significantly elevated when administered concurrently with protease inhibitors. Consideration should be given to temporarily withholding the regimen in patients who develop significant hematological or gastrointestinal toxicity when protease inhibitors are coadministered with vincristine. Vincristine is a CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate; protease inhibitors are CYP3A4 inhibitors and some also inhibit P-gp. If the antiretroviral regimen needs to be withheld for a prolonged period, consider use of a revised regimen that does not include a CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor.
Dengue Tetravalent Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of the live dengue virus vaccine with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Desmopressin: (Major) Additive hyponatremic effects may be seen in patients treated with desmopressin and drugs associated with SIADH including vincristine. Use combination with caution, and monitor patients for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) In vitro, ethinyl estradiol is a mild CYP3A4 inhibitor, and vincristine is a CYP3A substrate. Theoretically, coadministration could increase exposure to vincristine; monitor patients for increased side effects if these drugs are given together.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) In vitro, ethinyl estradiol is a mild CYP3A4 inhibitor, and vincristine is a CYP3A substrate. Theoretically, coadministration could increase exposure to vincristine; monitor patients for increased side effects if these drugs are given together.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Major) Quinidine inhibits P-glycoprotein (P-gp), and vincristine is a P-gp substrate. Coadministration could increase exposure to vincristine; monitor patients for increased side effects if these drugs are given together.
Dichlorphenamide: (Moderate) Use dichlorphenamide and sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous together with caution. Dichlorphenamide increases potassium excretion and can cause hypokalemia and should be used cautiously with other drugs that may cause hypokalemia including laxatives. Measure potassium concentrations at baseline and periodically during dichlorphenamide treatment. If hypokalemia occurs or persists, consider reducing the dichlorphenamide dose or discontinuing dichlorphenamide therapy.
Dronedarone: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A; dronedarone also inhibits P-gp. Vincristine is a substrate for CYP3A4 and P-gp. The concomitant administration of dronedarone with CYP3A4 and P-gp substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) In vitro, ethinyl estradiol is a mild CYP3A4 inhibitor, and vincristine is a CYP3A substrate. Theoretically, coadministration could increase exposure to vincristine; monitor patients for increased side effects if these drugs are given together.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Moderate) In vitro, ethinyl estradiol is a mild CYP3A4 inhibitor, and vincristine is a CYP3A substrate. Theoretically, coadministration could increase exposure to vincristine; monitor patients for increased side effects if these drugs are given together.
Ebola Zaire Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to vincristine recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving vincristine. At least 2 weeks before initiation of vincristine therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Vincristine recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Elacestrant: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of elacestrant is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and elacestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Elbasvir; Grazoprevir: (Moderate) Administering vincristine with elbasvir; grazoprevir may result in elevated vincristine plasma concentrations. Vincristine is a substrate of CYP3A; grazoprevir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. If these drugs are used together, closely monitor for signs of adverse events.
Eliglustat: (Major) Eliglustat inhibits P-glycoprotein (P-gp), and vincristine is a P-gp substrate. Coadministration could increase exposure to vincristine; monitor patients for increased side effects if these drugs are given together.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vincristine with cobicistat due to increased plasma concentrations of vincristine, resulting in an earlier onset and/or increased severity of neuromuscular side effects. Vincristine is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vincristine with cobicistat due to increased plasma concentrations of vincristine, resulting in an earlier onset and/or increased severity of neuromuscular side effects. Vincristine is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Enasidenib: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of enasidenib is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and enasidenib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vincristine and encorafenib due to the risk of decreased vincristine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Vincristine is a CYP3A substrate and encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Ensitrelvir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vincristine with ensitrelvir due to the risk for increased plasma concentrations of vincristine, resulting in an earlier onset and/or increased severity of neuromuscular side effects. Vincristine is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vincristine with enzalutamide due to decreased plasma concentrations of vincristine. Vincristine is a CYP3A4 substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Erdafitinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sodium phosphates with erdafitinib before the initial dose increase period (days 14 to 21) which is based on serum phosphate levels. Sodium phosphates increase serum phosphate levels. Erdafitinib causes hyperphosphatemia as a consequence of FGFR inhibition. Changes in serum phosphate levels by sodium phosphate may interfere with the determination of this initial dose increase and may cause additive hyperphosphatemia. (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of erdafitinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Erythromycin: (Major) Increased concentrations of vincristine are likely. Consider if alternative antibiotic therapy is appropriate. Monitor for vincristine-related side effects, including neurotoxicity, if these drugs must be used together. Erythromycin is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and also inhibits P-gp. Vincristine is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate. Reports of interactions between erythromycin and vinca alkaloids have been noted.
Eslicarbazepine: (Major) Vincristine is a substrate for cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4. Agents that induce CYP3A4 may increase the metabolism of vincristine and decrease the efficacy of drug, including eslicarbazepines. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently with vincristine should be monitored for possible loss of vincristine efficacy.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Moderate) In vitro, ethinyl estradiol is a mild CYP3A4 inhibitor, and vincristine is a CYP3A substrate. Theoretically, coadministration could increase exposure to vincristine; monitor patients for increased side effects if these drugs are given together.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Moderate) In vitro, ethinyl estradiol is a mild CYP3A4 inhibitor, and vincristine is a CYP3A substrate. Theoretically, coadministration could increase exposure to vincristine; monitor patients for increased side effects if these drugs are given together.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Moderate) In vitro, ethinyl estradiol is a mild CYP3A4 inhibitor, and vincristine is a CYP3A substrate. Theoretically, coadministration could increase exposure to vincristine; monitor patients for increased side effects if these drugs are given together.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) In vitro, ethinyl estradiol is a mild CYP3A4 inhibitor, and vincristine is a CYP3A substrate. Theoretically, coadministration could increase exposure to vincristine; monitor patients for increased side effects if these drugs are given together.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) In vitro, ethinyl estradiol is a mild CYP3A4 inhibitor, and vincristine is a CYP3A substrate. Theoretically, coadministration could increase exposure to vincristine; monitor patients for increased side effects if these drugs are given together.
Etravirine: (Moderate) Etravirine is a CYP3A4 inducer/substrate and a P-glycoprotein (PGP) inhibitor and vincristine is a CYP3A4 and PGP substrate. Caution is warranted if these drugs are coadministered.
Febuxostat: (Major) Coadministration of febuxostat and cytotoxic antineoplastic agents has not been studied. After antineoplastic therapy, tumor cell breakdown may greatly increase the rate of purine metabolism to uric acid. Febuxostat inhibits uric acid formation, but does not affect xanthine and hypoxanthine formation. An increased renal load of these two uric acid precursors can occur and result in xanthine nephropathy and calculi.
Filgrastim, G-CSF: (Major) Filgrastim induces the proliferation of neutrophil-progenitor cells, and, because antineoplastic agents exert toxic effects against rapidly growing cells, filgrastim is contraindicated for use during the 24 hours before or after cytotoxic chemotherapy.
Fluconazole: (Minor) Concomitant use of vincristine and fluconazole may increase the risk for vincristine-related adverse effects such as neurotoxicity. The data supporting the risk of adverse effects associated with this combination is limited to retrospective observational studies and results have been inconsistent. Some data suggest that short courses of low-dose, prophylactic fluconazole may be used safely. Vincristine is a CYP3A substrate and fluconazole is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Fludrocortisone: (Minor) Use sodium phosphate cautiously with mineralocorticoids as concurrent use can cause hypernatremia in some patients.
Flutamide: (Moderate) Vincristine is a substrate for cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4. Agents that induce CYP3A4 may increase the metabolism of vincristine and decrease the efficacy of drug, including flutamide (in vitro). Patients receiving these drugs concurrently with vincristine should be monitored for possible loss of vincristine efficacy.
Fosamprenavir: (Major) The plasma concentrations of vincristine may be significantly elevated when administered concurrently with protease inhibitors. Consideration should be given to temporarily withholding the regimen in patients who develop significant hematological or gastrointestinal toxicity when protease inhibitors are coadministered with vincristine. Vincristine is a CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate; protease inhibitors are CYP3A4 inhibitors and some also inhibit P-gp. If the antiretroviral regimen needs to be withheld for a prolonged period, consider use of a revised regimen that does not include a CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Fosphenytoin is a prodrug of phenytoin, and the concomitant use of phenytoin and vincristine is to be avoided. Vincristine is a substrate for cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4. Agents that induce CYP 3A4 such as phenytoin may increase the metabolism of vincristine and decrease the efficacy of drug. Also, simultaneous oral or intravenous administration of phenytoin and antineoplastic chemotherapy combinations that included non-liposomal vincristine sulfate have been reported to reduce blood levels of phenytoin and to increase seizure activity. Concurrent treatment with vinca alkaloids and phenytoin has resulted in 50% decreases in phenytoin concentrations and seizures. Reduced phenytoin concentrations may be noted within 24 hours and continue for up to 10 days.
Fostamatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of fostamatinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and fostamatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Gadobenate Dimeglumine: (Moderate) Gadobenate dimeglumine is a substrate for the canalicular multi-specific organic anion transporter (MOAT). Use with other MOAT substrates, such as vinca alkaloids, may result in prolonged systemic exposure of the coadministered drug. Caution is advised if these drugs are used together.
Ganciclovir: (Moderate) Use ganciclovir and vinca alkaloids together only if the potential benefits outweigh the risks; bone marrow suppression, spermatogenesis inhibition, skin toxicity, and gastrointestinal toxicity may be additive as both drugs inhibit rapidly dividing cells.
Gilteritinib: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of gilteritinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and gilteritinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Glecaprevir; Pibrentasvir: (Moderate) Caution is advised with the coadministration of pibrentasvir and vincristine as coadministration may increase serum concentrations of vincristine and increase the risk of adverse effects. Vincristine is a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp); pibrentasvir is an inhibitor of P-gp.
hydrALAZINE: (Moderate) Use sodium phosphates cautiously with hydralazine as concurrent use can cause hypernatremia.
hydrALAZINE; Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Use sodium phosphates cautiously with hydralazine as concurrent use can cause hypernatremia.
Hydrocortisone: (Minor) Use sodium phosphate cautiously with mineralocorticoids as concurrent use can cause hypernatremia in some patients.
Idelalisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of idelalisib, a strong CYP3A inhibitor, with vincristine, a CYP3A substrate, as vincristine toxicities may be significantly increased. The AUC of a sensitive CYP3A substrate was increased 5.4-fold when coadministered with idelalisib.
Imatinib: (Moderate) Imatinib, STI-571, inhibits CYP3A4, and vincristine is a CYP3A substrate. Coadministration could increase exposure to vincristine; monitor patients for increased side effects if these drugs are given together.
Imlunestrant: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of imlunestrant is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and imlunestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Intranasal Influenza Vaccine: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to vincristine recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving vincristine. At least 2 weeks before initiation of vincristine therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Vincristine recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Isavuconazonium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of isavuconazonium with vincristine may result in increased serum concentrations of vincristine. Vincristine is a substrate of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4 and drug transporter P-glycoprotein (P-gp); isavuconazole, the active moiety of isavuconazonium, is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and P-gp. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together.
Istradefylline: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of istradefylline is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and istradefylline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Itraconazole: (Major) Avoid the use of vincristine during and for 2 weeks after discontinuation of itraconazole due to the risk of an earlier onset and/or increased severity of vincristine-related adverse reactions, including constipation and peripheral neuropathy. Vincristine is a CYP3A4 substrate and itraconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant administration of vincristine and itraconazole has resulted in an increased incidence of neurotoxicity.
Ketoconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vincristinewith ketoconazole if possible due to increased plasma concentrations of vincristine. Monitor for an earlier onset and/or increased severity of neuromuscular, myelosuppressive, or other side effects. Vincristine is a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) in vitro and ketoconazole is a P-gp inhibitor. Vincristine is also a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Increased concentrations of vincristine are likely. Consider if alternative antibiotic therapy is appropriate. Monitor for vincristine-related side effects, including neurotoxicity, if these drugs must be used together. Clarithromycin is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4 and also inhibits P-gp. Vincristine is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate. Postmarketing reports of interactions, including serious toxicity, between clarithromycin or similar macrolides and vinca alkaloids have been noted.
Lapatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with lapatinib is necessary. Vincristine is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and lapatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Lasmiditan: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of lasmiditan is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and lasmiditan is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ledipasvir; Sofosbuvir: (Moderate) Caution and close monitoring of vincristine-associated adverse reactions is advised with concomitant administration of ledipasvir. Vincristine is a substrate of the drug transporter P-glycoprotein (P-gp); ledipasvir is a P-gp inhibitor. Taking these drugs together may increase vincristine plasma concentrations.
Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of lenacapavir is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and lenacapavir is a P-gp inhibitor.
Letermovir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of letermovir and vincristine in patients additionally receiving cyclosporine due to increased plasma concentrations of vincristine. Vinorelbine is a CYP3A4 substrate. Letermovir is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor that may be administered with vincristine; however, when given with cyclosporine, the combined effect on CYP3A4 substrates may be similar to a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. An increase in plasma concentrations of vincristine may occur during concurrent administration with letermovir; in patients who are also receiving treatment with cyclosporine, the magnitude of this interaction may be amplified.
Levacetylleucine: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of levacetylleucine is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and levacetylleucine is a P-gp inhibitor.
Levoketoconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vincristinewith ketoconazole if possible due to increased plasma concentrations of vincristine. Monitor for an earlier onset and/or increased severity of neuromuscular, myelosuppressive, or other side effects. Vincristine is a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) in vitro and ketoconazole is a P-gp inhibitor. Vincristine is also a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) In vitro, ethinyl estradiol is a mild CYP3A4 inhibitor, and vincristine is a CYP3A substrate. Theoretically, coadministration could increase exposure to vincristine; monitor patients for increased side effects if these drugs are given together.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) In vitro, ethinyl estradiol is a mild CYP3A4 inhibitor, and vincristine is a CYP3A substrate. Theoretically, coadministration could increase exposure to vincristine; monitor patients for increased side effects if these drugs are given together.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Moderate) In vitro, ethinyl estradiol is a mild CYP3A4 inhibitor, and vincristine is a CYP3A substrate. Theoretically, coadministration could increase exposure to vincristine; monitor patients for increased side effects if these drugs are given together.
Live Vaccines: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to vincristine recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving vincristine. At least 2 weeks before initiation of vincristine therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Vincristine recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vincristine with lonafarnib due to increased plasma concentrations of vincristine, resulting in an earlier onset and/or increased severity of neuromuscular side effects. Vincristine is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate and lonafarnib is a P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) The plasma concentrations of vincristine may be significantly elevated when administered concurrently with protease inhibitors. Consideration should be given to temporarily withholding the regimen in patients who develop significant hematological or gastrointestinal toxicity when protease inhibitors are coadministered with vincristine. Vincristine is a CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate; protease inhibitors are CYP3A4 inhibitors and some also inhibit P-gp. If the antiretroviral regimen needs to be withheld for a prolonged period, consider use of a revised regimen that does not include a CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor.
Lorlatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vincristine and lorlatinib due to the risk of decreased vincristine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Vincristine is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and lorlatinib is a P-gp inducer.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Lumacaftor; ivacaftor may alter the exposure of vincristine. If coadministration is necessary, use caution and monitor closely. Vincristine is a substrate of CYP3A and the P-glycoprotein (P-gp) drug transporter. Lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer; in vitro data suggest lumacaftor; ivacaftor may also induce and/or inhibit P-gp. Although induction of vincristine metabolism through the CYP3A pathway may lead to decreased drug efficacy, the net effect of lumacaftor; ivacaftor on P-gp transport is not clear. Monitor the patient for decreased chemotherapeutic efficacy and vincristine-related toxicity.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Lumacaftor; ivacaftor may alter the exposure of vincristine. If coadministration is necessary, use caution and monitor closely. Vincristine is a substrate of CYP3A and the P-glycoprotein (P-gp) drug transporter. Lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer; in vitro data suggest lumacaftor; ivacaftor may also induce and/or inhibit P-gp. Although induction of vincristine metabolism through the CYP3A pathway may lead to decreased drug efficacy, the net effect of lumacaftor; ivacaftor on P-gp transport is not clear. Monitor the patient for decreased chemotherapeutic efficacy and vincristine-related toxicity.
Magnesium Hydroxide: (Major) Antacids may interact with urinary acidifiers by alkalinizing the urine. Frequent use of these high dose antacids should be avoided in patients receiving urinary acidifiers.
Magnesium Salicylate: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Magnesium Salts: (Major) Antacids may interact with urinary acidifiers by alkalinizing the urine. Frequent use of these high dose antacids should be avoided in patients receiving urinary acidifiers.
Maribavir: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of maribavir is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and maribavir is a P-gp inhibitor.
Mavorixafor: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of mavorixafor is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and mavorixafor is a P-gp inhibitor.
Measles Virus; Mumps Virus; Rubella Virus; Varicella Virus Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to vincristine recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving vincristine. At least 2 weeks before initiation of vincristine therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Vincristine recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Measles/Mumps/Rubella Vaccines, MMR: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to vincristine recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving vincristine. At least 2 weeks before initiation of vincristine therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Vincristine recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Mefloquine: (Major) Mefloquine inhibits P-glycoprotein (P-gp), and vincristine is a P-gp substrate. Coadministration could increase exposure to vincristine; monitor patients for increased side effects if these drugs are given together.
Meropenem: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vincristine and meropenem due to the risk of decreased vincristine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and meropenem is a P-gp inducer.
Meropenem; Vaborbactam: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vincristine and meropenem due to the risk of decreased vincristine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and meropenem is a P-gp inducer.
Methadone: (Minor) As methadone is a weak base, the renal elimination of methadone is increased by urine acidification. Thus acidifying agents may lower the serum methadone concentration. The limited amounts of circulating methadone that undergo glomerular filtration are partially reabsorbed by the kidney tubules, and this reabsorption is pH-dependent. Several studies have demonstrated that methadone is cleared faster from the body with an acidic urinary pH as compared with a more basic pH.
Methohexital: (Major) Vincristine is a substrate for cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4. Agents that induce CYP 3A4 may increase the metabolism of vincristine and decrease the efficacy of drug, including barbiturates. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently should be monitored for possible loss of vincristine efficacy.
Methotrexate: (Major) Monitor for increased serum concentrations and toxicities of methotrexate when administered concurrently with vincristine. When given 0 to 1 hour prior to methotrexate, vincristine increases the cellular retention of methotrexate by inhibiting methotrexate efflux from the cell. Since the window of opportunity for a synergistic interaction is short, the effects in vivo are clinically not seen. Therapeutic synergism is noted when methotrexate is given 8 to 48 hours before vincristine. The mechanism for this interaction has not been clearly defined.
Methyldopa: (Moderate) Use sodium phosphates cautiously with methyldopa, as concurrent use can cause hypernatremia.
miFEPRIStone: (Moderate) Increased concentrations of vincristine are likely if chronic mifepristone therapy is given concurrently; exercise caution and monitor for vincristine-related side effects, including neurotoxicity. Mifepristone is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and possibly an inhibitor of P-gp. Vincristine is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate. Due to the slow elimination of mifepristone from the body, such interactions may be observed for a prolonged period after mifepristone administration. Use the lowest dose of vincristine necessary, with appropriate monitoring and follow-up.
Mitapivat: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of mitapivat is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor.
mitoMYcin: (Moderate) Monitor for pulmonary toxicity if coadministration of mitomycin and vinca alkaloids is necessary. Acute shortness of breath and severe bronchospasm have been reported following the administration of vinca alkaloids in patients who had previously or simultaneously received mitomycin. The onset of acute respiratory distress occurred within minutes to hours after vinca alkaloid administration. Treatment with bronchodilators, steroids, and/or oxygen may provide symptomatic relief.
Mitotane: (Major) Concomitant use of mitotane with vincristine should be undertaken with caution as it could result in decreased plasma concentrations of vincristine, leading to reduced efficacy. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and vincristine is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Modafinil: (Moderate) Vincristine is a substrate for cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4. Agents that induce CYP3A4 may increase the metabolism of vincristine and decrease the efficacy of drug, including modafinil. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently with vincristine should be monitored for possible loss of vincristine efficacy.
Nafcillin: (Moderate) Vincristine is a substrate for cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4. Agents that induce CYP3A4 may increase the metabolism of vincristine and decrease the efficacy of drug, including nafcillin (in vitro). Patients receiving these drugs concurrently with vincristine should be monitored for possible loss of vincristine efficacy.
Nelfinavir: (Major) The plasma concentrations of vincristine may be significantly elevated when administered concurrently with protease inhibitors. Consideration should be given to temporarily withholding the regimen in patients who develop significant hematological or gastrointestinal toxicity when protease inhibitors are coadministered with vincristine. Vincristine is a CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate; protease inhibitors are CYP3A4 inhibitors and some also inhibit P-gp. If the antiretroviral regimen needs to be withheld for a prolonged period, consider use of a revised regimen that does not include a CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor.
Neratinib: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of neratinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and neratinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Netupitant, Fosnetupitant; Palonosetron: (Moderate) Netupitant is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A4 and should be used with caution in patients receiving concomitant medications that are primarily metabolized through CYP3A4, such as vincristine. The plasma concentrations of CYP3A4 substrates can increase when co-administered with netupitant. The inhibitory effect on CYP3A4 can last for multiple days. If coadministration is necessary, use caution and monitor for chemotherapeutic related adverse reactions.
NIFEdipine: (Major) Use caution if coadminsitration of nifedipine is necessary with vincristine and monitor for vincristine toxicity. In a pharmacokinetic study of 26 patients with solid tumors and normal renal and hepatic function, vincristine 2 mg IV was administered alone (n = 14) or with nifedipine 10 mg by mouth three times daily for 3 days before and 7 days after (n = 12). Coadministration of nifedipine significantly increased vincristine AUC (10 +/- 2.91 mcg x min/ml vs 2.9 +/- 0.86 mcg x min/ml; p = < 0.001) and terminal half-life (85.56 +/- 23.51 hours vs 21.72 +/- 9.61 hours; p < 0.05) compared with vincristine alone; additionally, the plasma clearance was significantly reduced in patients treated with nifedipine (309.54 +/- 95.46 vs 985.06 +/- 258.6 ml/min/m2; p < 0.01). The mechanism of this interaction is poorly understood.
Nilotinib: (Moderate) Monitor for increased severity or earlier onset of vincristine-related adverse reactions (e.g., periipheral, autonomic and central neuropathy; low blood counts) if coadministration with nilotinib is necessary. Nilotinib may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a CYP3A4 substrate and nilotinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) The plasma concentrations of vincristine may be significantly elevated when administered concurrently with protease inhibitors. Consideration should be given to temporarily withholding the regimen in patients who develop significant hematological or gastrointestinal toxicity when protease inhibitors are coadministered with vincristine. Vincristine is a CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate; protease inhibitors are CYP3A4 inhibitors and some also inhibit P-gp. If the antiretroviral regimen needs to be withheld for a prolonged period, consider use of a revised regimen that does not include a CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) In vitro, ethinyl estradiol is a mild CYP3A4 inhibitor, and vincristine is a CYP3A substrate. Theoretically, coadministration could increase exposure to vincristine; monitor patients for increased side effects if these drugs are given together.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) In vitro, ethinyl estradiol is a mild CYP3A4 inhibitor, and vincristine is a CYP3A substrate. Theoretically, coadministration could increase exposure to vincristine; monitor patients for increased side effects if these drugs are given together.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) In vitro, ethinyl estradiol is a mild CYP3A4 inhibitor, and vincristine is a CYP3A substrate. Theoretically, coadministration could increase exposure to vincristine; monitor patients for increased side effects if these drugs are given together.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) In vitro, ethinyl estradiol is a mild CYP3A4 inhibitor, and vincristine is a CYP3A substrate. Theoretically, coadministration could increase exposure to vincristine; monitor patients for increased side effects if these drugs are given together.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Moderate) Vincristine is a substrate for cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4. Agents that induce CYP3A4 may increase the metabolism of vincristine and decrease the efficacy of the drug, including rifabutin. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently with vincristine should be monitored for possible loss of vincristine efficacy.
Oritavancin: (Minor) Vincristine is metabolized by CYP3A4; oritavancin is a weak CYP3A4 inducer. Plasma concentrations and efficacy of vincristine may be reduced if these drugs are administered concurrently.
Osimertinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with osimertinib is necessary. Vincristine is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and osimertinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
OXcarbazepine: (Moderate) Vincristine is a substrate for cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4. Agents that induce CYP3A4 may increase the metabolism of vincristine and decrease the efficacy of the drug, include oxcarbazepine. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently with vincristine should be monitored for possible loss of vincristine efficacy.
Pacritinib: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of pacritinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and pacritinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
PAZOPanib: (Moderate) Pazopanib is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration of pazopanib and vincristine, a CYP3A4 substrate, may cause an increase in systemic concentrations of vincristine. Use caution when administering these drugs concomitantly.
Pegaspargase: (Major) Administration of pegaspargase concurrently or prior to vincristine may result in decreased hepatic metabolism of vincristine and cause additive neurotoxicity. Administration of L-asparaginase after vincristine may lessen this effect; vincristine should be given 12 to 24 hours prior to L-asparaginase or pegaspargase.
Pegfilgrastim: (Major) Pegfilgrastim induces the proliferation of neutrophil-progenitor cells, and because antineoplastic agents exert toxic effects against rapidly growing cells, pegfilgrastim should not be given 14 days before or for 24 hours after cytotoxic chemotherapy.
PENTobarbital: (Major) Vincristine is a substrate for cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4. Agents that induce CYP 3A4 may increase the metabolism of vincristine and decrease the efficacy of drug, including barbiturates. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently should be monitored for possible loss of vincristine efficacy.
Perampanel: (Moderate) Vincristine is a substrate for cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4. Agents that induce CYP3A4 may increase the metabolism of vincristine and decrease the efficacy of the drug, including perampanel (in vitro). Patients receiving these drugs concurrently with vincristine should be monitored for possible loss of vincristine efficacy.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Vincristine is a substrate for cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4. Agents that induce CYP 3A4 may increase the metabolism of vincristine and decrease the efficacy of drug, including barbiturates. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently should be monitored for possible loss of vincristine efficacy.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Vincristine is a substrate for cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4. Agents that induce CYP 3A4 may increase the metabolism of vincristine and decrease the efficacy of drug, including barbiturates. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently should be monitored for possible loss of vincristine efficacy.
Phenytoin: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of phenytoin and vincristine. Vincristine is a substrate for cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4. Agents that induce CYP 3A4 such as phenytoin may increase the metabolism of vincristine and decrease the efficacy of drug. Also, simultaneous oral or intravenous administration of phenytoin and antineoplastic chemotherapy combinations that included non-liposomal vincristine sulfate have been reported to reduce blood levels of phenytoin and to increase seizure activity. Concurrent treatment with vinca alkaloids and phenytoin has resulted in 50% decreases in phenytoin concentrations and seizures. Reduced phenytoin concentrations may be noted within 24 hours and continue for up to 10 days.
Pirtobrutinib: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of pirtobrutinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and pirtobrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Posaconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of posaconazole with vincristine due to increased plasma concentrations of vincristine. Vincristine is a CYP3A4 substrate and posaconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant administration of azole antifungals, including posaconazole, with another vinca alkaloid has been associated with neurotoxicity and other serious adverse reactions, including seizures, peripheral neuropathy, syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion, and paralytic ileus.
Pretomanid: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of pretomanid is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and pretomanid is a P-gp inhibitor.
Primaquine: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of primaquine is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and primaquine is a P-gp inhibitor.
Primidone: (Major) Vincristine is a substrate for cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4. Agents that induce CYP 3A4 may increase the metabolism of vincristine and decrease the efficacy of drug, including barbiturates. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently should be monitored for possible loss of vincristine efficacy.
Propafenone: (Major) Propafenone inhibits P-glycoprotein (P-gp), and vincristine is a P-gp substrate. Coadministration could increase exposure to vincristine; monitor patients for increased side effects if these drugs are given together.
Protease inhibitors: (Major) The plasma concentrations of vincristine may be significantly elevated when administered concurrently with protease inhibitors. Consideration should be given to temporarily withholding the regimen in patients who develop significant hematological or gastrointestinal toxicity when protease inhibitors are coadministered with vincristine. Vincristine is a CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate; protease inhibitors are CYP3A4 inhibitors and some also inhibit P-gp. If the antiretroviral regimen needs to be withheld for a prolonged period, consider use of a revised regimen that does not include a CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor.
quiNIDine: (Major) Quinidine inhibits P-glycoprotein (P-gp), and vincristine is a P-gp substrate. Coadministration could increase exposure to vincristine; monitor patients for increased side effects if these drugs are given together.
quiNINE: (Moderate) Quinine inhibits CYP3A4, and vincristine is a CYP3A substrate. Coadministration could increase exposure to vincristine; monitor patients for increased side effects if these drugs are given together.
Relacorilant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vincristine with relacorilant due to increased plasma concentrations of vincristine, resulting in an earlier onset and/or increased severity of neuromuscular side effects. Vincristine is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Remibrutinib: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of remibrutinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ribociclib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vincristine with ribociclib due to increased plasma concentrations of vincristine, resulting in an earlier onset and/or increased severity of neuromuscular side effects. Vincristine is a CYP3A4 substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vincristine with ribociclib due to increased plasma concentrations of vincristine, resulting in an earlier onset and/or increased severity of neuromuscular side effects. Vincristine is a CYP3A4 substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Rifabutin: (Moderate) Vincristine is a substrate for cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4. Agents that induce CYP3A4 may increase the metabolism of vincristine and decrease the efficacy of the drug, including rifabutin. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently with vincristine should be monitored for possible loss of vincristine efficacy.
rifAMPin: (Moderate) Vincristine is a substrate for cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4. Agents that induce CYP3A4 may increase the metabolism of vincristine and decrease the efficacy of the drug, including rifampin. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently with vincristine should be monitored for possible loss of vincristine efficacy.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vincristine and rifapentine due to the risk of decreased vincristine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Vincristine is a CYP3A substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Rilzabrutinib: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of rilzabrutinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and rilzabrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ritonavir: (Major) The plasma concentrations of vincristine may be significantly elevated when administered concurrently with protease inhibitors. Consideration should be given to temporarily withholding the regimen in patients who develop significant hematological or gastrointestinal toxicity when protease inhibitors are coadministered with vincristine. Vincristine is a CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate; protease inhibitors are CYP3A4 inhibitors and some also inhibit P-gp. If the antiretroviral regimen needs to be withheld for a prolonged period, consider use of a revised regimen that does not include a CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor.
Rolapitant: (Moderate) Use caution if vincristine and rolapitant are used concurrently, and monitor for vincristine-related adverse effects. Vincristine is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate, where an increase in exposure may significantly increase adverse effects; rolapitant is a P-gp inhibitor. When rolapitant was administered with another P-gp substrate, digoxin, the day 1 Cmax and AUC were increased by 70% and 30%, respectively; the Cmax and AUC on day 8 were not studied.
Rotavirus Vaccine: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to vincristine recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving vincristine. At least 2 weeks before initiation of vincristine therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Vincristine recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Salsalate: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Saquinavir: (Major) The plasma concentrations of vincristine may be significantly elevated when administered concurrently with protease inhibitors. Consideration should be given to temporarily withholding the regimen in patients who develop significant hematological or gastrointestinal toxicity when protease inhibitors are coadministered with vincristine. Vincristine is a CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate; protease inhibitors are CYP3A4 inhibitors and some also inhibit P-gp. If the antiretroviral regimen needs to be withheld for a prolonged period, consider use of a revised regimen that does not include a CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor.
SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) vaccines: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) mRNA Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) Recombinant Spike Protein Nanoparticle Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
Secobarbital: (Major) Vincristine is a substrate for cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4. Agents that induce CYP 3A4 may increase the metabolism of vincristine and decrease the efficacy of drug, including barbiturates. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently should be monitored for possible loss of vincristine efficacy.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) In vitro, ethinyl estradiol is a mild CYP3A4 inhibitor, and vincristine is a CYP3A substrate. Theoretically, coadministration could increase exposure to vincristine; monitor patients for increased side effects if these drugs are given together.
Selpercatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of selpercatinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and selpercatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Sevabertinib: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of sevabertinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and sevabertinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Smallpox and Monkeypox Vaccine, Live, Nonreplicating: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to vincristine recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving vincristine. At least 2 weeks before initiation of vincristine therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Vincristine recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Smallpox and Mpox (Vaccinia) Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to vincristine recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving vincristine. At least 2 weeks before initiation of vincristine therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Vincristine recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Sodium Iodide I-131: (Moderate) Monitor for bone marrow suppression during concomitant use of sodium iodide I-131 and antineoplastic agents. Concomitant use of bone marrow depressants may enhance the depression of the hematopoietic system caused by the use of large doses of sodium iodide I-131.
Sodium Phenylbutyrate; Taurursodiol: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of taurursodiol is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and taurursodiol is a P-gp inhibitor.
SORAfenib: (Moderate) Monitor for an earlier onset or increased severity of vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with sorafenib is necessary. Vincristine is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and sorafenib is a P-gp inhibitor in vitro. The effect of concomitant use of P-gp inhibitors with vincristine has not been investigated; however, it is likely that these agents will alter the pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics of vincristine.
Sotorasib: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of sotorasib is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and sotorasib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Sparsentan: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of sparsentan is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Moderate) St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum induces both CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp), and may decrease serum concentrations of drugs metabolized by this enzyme, such as vincristine. If these drugs are used together, monitor for possible decreased efficacy of vincristine.
Tbo-Filgrastim: (Major) Filgrastim induces the proliferation of neutrophil-progenitor cells, and, because antineoplastic agents exert toxic effects against rapidly growing cells, filgrastim is contraindicated for use during the 24 hours before or after cytotoxic chemotherapy.
Temsirolimus: (Major) Avoid coadministration of temsirolimus with vincristine due to increased plasma concentrations of vincristine. Vincristine is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor. The effect of concomitant use of P-gp inhibitors has not been investigated, but it is likely that these agents will alter the pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics of vincristine.
Tepotinib: (Major) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of tepotinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and tepotinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Thalidomide: (Moderate) Thalidomide and other agents that cause peripheral neuropathy such as vincristine should be used cautiously due to the potential for additive effects.
Tipranavir: (Major) The plasma concentrations of vincristine may be significantly elevated when administered concurrently with protease inhibitors. Consideration should be given to temporarily withholding the regimen in patients who develop significant hematological or gastrointestinal toxicity when protease inhibitors are coadministered with vincristine. Vincristine is a CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate; protease inhibitors are CYP3A4 inhibitors and some also inhibit P-gp. If the antiretroviral regimen needs to be withheld for a prolonged period, consider use of a revised regimen that does not include a CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitor.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Major) Verapamil inhibits CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp); vincristine is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate. Coadministration could increase exposure to vincristine; however, verapamil must be given in toxic doses to achieve this effect. An in vitro study has shown that verapamil competes with vincristine for protein binding sites, specifically 1-acid glycoprotein. Verapamil reduced the binding of vincristine to various proteins by 27 to 60%. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known. The absorption of verapamil may also be reduced by coadministration with the cyclophosphamide, vincristine, procarbazine, prednisone (COPP) chemotherapeutic drug regimen. Monitor for increased side effects of vincristine and loss of blood pressure control during coadministration.
Trientine: (Major) In general, oral mineral supplements should not be given since they may block the oral absorption of trientine. However, iron deficiency may develop, especially in children and menstruating or pregnant women, or as a result of the low copper diet recommended for Wilson's disease. If necessary, iron may be given in short courses, but since iron and trientine each inhibit oral absorption of the other, 2 hours should elapse between administration of trientine and iron doses.
Trifluoperazine: (Major) Trifluoperazine inhibits P-glycoprotein (P-gp), which is a mechanism of resistance to naturally occurring (non-synthetic) chemotherapy agents; vincristine is a P-gp substrate. Coadministration could increase exposure to vincristine; however, trifluoperazine must be given in toxic doses to achieve this effect.
Trofinetide: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of trofinetide is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor.
Tuberculin Purified Protein Derivative, PPD: (Moderate) Immunosuppressives may decrease the immunological response to tuberculin purified protein derivative, PPD. This suppressed reactivity can persist for up to 6 weeks after treatment discontinuation. Consider deferring the skin test until completion of the immunosuppressive therapy.
Tucatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vincristine with tucatinib due to increased plasma concentrations of vincristine, resulting in an earlier onset and/or increased severity of neuromuscular side effects. Vincristine is a CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate; tucatinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and P-gp inhibitor.
Typhoid Vaccine: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to vincristine recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving vincristine. At least 2 weeks before initiation of vincristine therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Vincristine recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
valGANciclovir: (Moderate) Use valganciclovir and vinca alkaloids together only if the potential benefits outweigh the risks; bone marrow suppression, spermatogenesis inhibition, skin toxicity, and gastrointestinal toxicity may be additive as both drugs inhibit rapidly dividing cells.
Valproic Acid, Divalproex Sodium: (Moderate) In vitro, Valproic Acid, Divalproex Sodium is a mild CYP3A4 inhibitor and inducer, as well as a mild P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inducer; vincristine is a substrate of both CYP3A and P-gp. Theoretically, concentrations of vincristine may be affected by coadministration. Monitor patients for changes in vincristine efficacy and toxicity if these drugs are used together.
Vanzacaftor; Tezacaftor; Deutivacaftor: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is a P-gp inhibitor.
Vanzacaftor; Tezacaftor; Deutivacaftor: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is a P-gp inhibitor.
Varicella Virus Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to vincristine recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving vincristine. At least 2 weeks before initiation of vincristine therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Vincristine recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Vasopressin, ADH: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamics and adjust the dose of vasopressin as needed when used concomitantly with drugs suspected of causing syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone (SIADH), such as vincristine. Use together may increase the pressor and antidiuretic effects of vasopressin.
Vemurafenib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of vemurafenib and vincristine may result in altered concentrations of vincristine. Vemurafenib is an inhibitor of P-glycoprotein (PGP) and an inducer of CYP3A4. Vincristine is a substrate of PGP and CYP3A4. Use caution and monitor patients for toxicity and efficacy.
Vepdegestrant: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of vepdegestrant is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Verapamil: (Major) Verapamil inhibits CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp); vincristine is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate. Coadministration could increase exposure to vincristine; however, verapamil must be given in toxic doses to achieve this effect. An in vitro study has shown that verapamil competes with vincristine for protein binding sites, specifically 1-acid glycoprotein. Verapamil reduced the binding of vincristine to various proteins by 27 to 60%. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known. The absorption of verapamil may also be reduced by coadministration with the cyclophosphamide, vincristine, procarbazine, prednisone (COPP) chemotherapeutic drug regimen. Monitor for increased side effects of vincristine and loss of blood pressure control during coadministration.
Vimseltinib: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of vimseltinib is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and vimseltinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Voclosporin: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of voclosporin is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and voclosporin is a P-gp inhibitor.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Increased concentrations of vincristine are likely. Consider if alternative antibiotic therapy is appropriate. Monitor for vincristine-related side effects, including neurotoxicity, if these drugs must be used together. Clarithromycin is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4 and also inhibits P-gp. Vincristine is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate. Postmarketing reports of interactions, including serious toxicity, between clarithromycin or similar macrolides and vinca alkaloids have been noted.
Voriconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voriconazole with vincristine due to increased plasma concentrations of vinorelbine. Vincristine is a CYP3A4 substrate and voriconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Although no studies have been conducted, vincristine exposure is likely to be increased.
Xanomeline; Trospium: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of xanomeline is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Yellow Fever Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Do not administer live vaccines to vincristine recipients; no data are available regarding the risk of secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving vincristine. At least 2 weeks before initiation of vincristine therapy, consider completion of all age appropriate vaccinations per current immunization guidelines. Vincristine recipients may receive inactivated vaccines, but the immune response to vaccines or toxoids may be decreased.
Zafirlukast: (Major) Zafirlukast inhibits CYP3A4, and vincristine is a CYP3A substrate. Coadministration could increase exposure to vincristine; monitor patients for increased side effects if these drugs are given together.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
    Headline
    arthralgia, asthenia, hyperesthesia, hypoesthesia, hyporeflexia, hypotension, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, paresthesias, peripheral neuropathy, weakness
    General Information
    Sensory and motor neuropathies from vincristine liposomal are common, are cumulative, and may cause many symptoms. Of 83 vincristine liposomal recipients, grade 1 or 2 events included peripheral neuropathy (22.3%) and hypotension (1.2%). Grade 3 or greater neuropathy and neuropathy-associated events included peripheral sensory and motor neuropathy (16.7%), asthenia (4.8%), hypotension (6%), and muscular weakness (1.2%). Adverse reactions related to neuropathy and leading to treatment discontinuation were decreased vibratory sense, facial palsy, hyporeflexia, constipation, asthenia, fatigue, and musculoskeletal pain each of which were reported in at least 1 patient. Other symptoms of neuropathy may include hypoesthesia, hyperesthesia, paresthesias, areflexia, neuralgia, jaw pain, cranial neuropathy, ileus, burning sensation, orthostatic hypotension, arthralgia, myalgia, or muscle spasms. Monitor patients for symptoms of neuropathy (peripheral motor, sensory, central, and autonomic) both before and during treatment. Worsening neuropathy requires dose delay, reduction, or discontinuation of vincristine liposomal (see Dosage). Vincristine liposomal is contraindicated for use by patients with demyelinating conditions including Charcot-Marie-Tooth syndrome. Further, only treat patients with preexisting severe neuropathy after careful risk-benefit assessment. The risk of neurologic toxicity is greater if vincristine liposomal is administered to patients with preexisting neuromuscular disorders or when other drugs with risk of neurologic toxicity are being given.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperesthesia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hypoesthesia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      hyporeflexia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      musculoskeletal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      myalgia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      paresthesias
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral neuropathy
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      weakness
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anemia, fever, infection, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia
    General Information
    Of 83 patients, 6.7% had grade 1 or 2 febrile neutropenia, and 31.3% had at least grade 3 febrile neutropenia, 18.1% had at least grade 3 neutropenia, 17.1% had grade 1 or 2 anemia, 16.9% had at least grade 3 anemia, and 16.9% had at least grade 3 thrombocytopenia. Grade 1 or 2 fever was noted in 43%, and 14.5% had grade 3 or higher fever. Grade 3 or higher infection such as pneumonia, septic shock, and staphylococcal bacteremia occurred in 39.8% of patients. Monitor complete blood counts before each dose of vincristine liposomal. If Grade 3 or 4 neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, or anemia develops, consider vincristine liposomal dose modification or reduction, as well as supportive care measures.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      neutropenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hyperkalemia, hyperphosphatemia, hyperuricemia, hypocalcemia, tumor lysis syndrome (TLS)
    General Information
    Tumor lysis syndrome (TLS) may occur in patients with acute lymphocytic leukemia receiving vincristine liposomal. Hyperkalemia, hyperphosphatemia, hyperuricemia, hypocalcemia, and decreased urine output may be indicative of vincristine-induced TLS. Anticipate and monitor for TLS. Appropriate measures (e.g. aggressive hydration and allopurinol) must be taken to prevent severe electrolyte imbalances and renal toxicity during and after chemotherapy administration in patients with large chemosensitive tumors.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      tumor lysis syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hyperkalemia
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hyperphosphatemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hyperuricemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hypocalcemia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, ileus
    General Information
    Ileus, bowel obstruction, colonic pseudo-obstruction, and constipation have occurred with vincristine liposomal and may be neuropathy-associated events. Of 83 patients, 52.2% had grade 1 or 2 constipation, and 4.8% had grade 3 or higher constipation. Grade 3 or higher ileus or colonic pseudo-obstruction was noted in 6% of patients, and 8.4% had grade 3 or higher abdominal pain. Also, 37% had diarrhea. Institute a prophylactic bowel regimen to mitigate potential constipation, bowel obstruction, and/or paralytic ileus. Consider adequate dietary fiber intake, hydration, and routine use of stool softeners such as docusate. Additional treatments such as senna, bisacodyl, milk of magnesia, magnesium citrate, and lactulose may be considered. Instruct patients to seek medical advice if they experience symptoms of constipation such bowel movement infrequency, abdominal pain, bloating, diarrhea, nausea, or vomiting.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      ileus
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    fatigue
    General Information
    Vincristine liposomal can cause severe fatigue, and fatigue may be a neuropathy-associated effect. Of 83 patients, 29% had grade 1 or 2 fatigue, and 12% had grade 3 or higher fatigue. Vincristine liposomal dose delay, reduction, or discontinuation may be necessary.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anorexia, elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatic failure, hyperbilirubinemia, nausea
    General Information
    Of 83 patients who received vincristine liposomal, 33% had decreased appetite or anorexia, and 52% had nausea. Fatal liver toxicity (hepatic failure) and elevated hepatic enzymes have occurred with vincristine liposomal. Elevated levels of aspartate aminotransferase of at least grade 3 occurred in 6—11% of patients in clinical trials. Also, grade 4 hyperbilirubinemia was noted with a dose of 2.4 mg/m2. Monitor hepatic function tests. Reduce or interrupt vincristine liposomal for hepatic toxicity.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hepatic failure
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperbilirubinemia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    insomnia
    General Information
    Of 83 recipients of vincristine liposomal, 32% had insomnia. Mental status changes were noted in 3.6%.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    cardiac arrest, respiratory arrest
    General Information
    Of 83 recipients of vincristine liposomal, 6% had respiratory distress of grade 3 and higher, 4.8% had respiratory arrest or failure, and 6% had cardiac arrest.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cardiac arrest
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      respiratory arrest
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    erythema, injection site reaction, phlebitis, skin irritation, tissue necrosis
    General Information
    Extravasation of vincristine liposomal can lead to an injection site reaction including phlebitis, skin irritation, and tissue necrosis. Observe patients for any injection site reaction especially severe pain, swelling, erythema, and poor blood return. Also, instruct patients to immediately report any burning or local skin irritation during or after the infusion. Only administer vincristine liposomal through a secure and free-flowing venous access line. If extravasation is suspected, immediately discontinue the infusion and consider local treatment measures. Extravasations of vinca alkaloids cause blisters after a few weeks and evolve slowly into necrotic ulcers. Some healing may occur; however, neurologic symptoms including paresthesias and sensory deficits at the site may be permanent. If extravasation occurs, treatment with warm compresses and hyaluronidase is effective in preventing ulcer formation. Cold compresses significantly increase the extravasation toxicity from vinca alkaloids.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      skin irritation
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      erythema
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      injection site reaction
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      phlebitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      tissue necrosis
      Severity
      Severe

Description
  Text
  NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
 
Liposomal vincristine is a sphingomyelin/cholesterol liposome-encapsulated formulation of vincristine sulfate, a vinca alkaloid agent. It received accelerated approval from the FDA in August 2012 for the treatment of adult patients with Philadelphia chromosome-negative acute lymphoblastic leukemia in second or greater relapse or whose disease has progressed following 2 or more anti-leukemia therapies. However, liposomal vincristine was voluntarily withdrawn from the market in May 2022 due to failure to complete the postmarketing trial required to verify clinical benefit.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
 
Vincristine sulfate liposome (Marqibo) is a sphingomyelin/cholesterol liposome-encapsulated formulation of vincristine sulfate, a vinca alkaloid agent. Vincristine sulfate was developed from the periwinkle plant in 1959. It is a cell cycle specific agent that exerts its cytotoxic effects on the cell by binding to tubulin, interfering with the structure and function of microtubules. By stabilizing spindle fibers, chromosome segregation is prevented which causes metaphase arrest and mitosis inhibition. The sphingomyelin/cholesterol liposome-encapsulated formulation of vincristine sulfate is less susceptible to acid hydrolysis. Additionally, this encapsulated formulation may better penetrate the tumor vasculature and allow the drug to be released slowly, exposing it to the tumor over a longer time period.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Intravenous Route
    Description
    The liposomal formulation of vincristine may not be immediately bioavailable and cannot be directly comparable with non-liposomal vincristine sulfate. After IV administration of liposomal vincristine 2.25 mg/m2 over 1 hour in 13 patients with acute lymphocytic leukemia, the median Cmax value was 1,230 ng/mL (range, 919 to 1,720 ng/mL) and the median AUC(0 to inf) value was 13,680 ng x hour/mL (range, 7,036 to 26,074 ng x hour/mL).
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    The median dose-adjusted Cmax and AUC(0-inf) values were 399 ng/mL (217 to 531 ng/mL) and 4,926 ng x hour/mL (4,650 to 9,640 ng x hour/mL), respectively, in patients with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh score of 7 to 8) who received of liposomal vincristine 1 mg/m2 IV every 14 days. These pharmacokinetic (PK) changes were not considered clinically meaningful. PK parameters of liposomal vincristine have not been evaluated in patients with severe hepatic impairment.
  Text
  NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
 
Liposomal vincristine is administered by intravenous (IV) infusion. After IV administration of liposomal vincristine 2.25 mg/m2 over 1 hour, the median clearance was 302 mL/hour (range, 148 to 783 mL/hour) in 12 patients with acute lymphocytic leukemia. Urinary excretion was less than 8% of the dose over 96 hours and fecal elimination accounted for 69% of the total dose over 72 hours following IV liposomal vincristine.
Affected cytochrome P450 (CYP) isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A4, P-gp
Vincristine is a substrate of CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein. Formal drug interaction studies have not been conducted with liposomal vincristine.

Administration
  General Information
  NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
 
NOTE: Liposomal vincristine has different dosage recommendations than vincristine sulfate injection. Verify drug name and dose prior to preparation and administration.
For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
Hazardous Drugs Classification
NIOSH 2024 List: Table 1
Observe and exercise appropriate precautions for handling, preparation, administration, and disposal of hazardous drugs.
Use double chemotherapy gloves and a protective gown. Prepare in a biological safety cabinet or compounding aseptic containment isolator with a closed system drug transfer device. Eye/face and respiratory protection may be needed during preparation and administration.
Recommended Prophylaxis
A prophylactic bowel regimen against constipation (e.g., adequate dietary fiber intake, hydration, stool softeners) is recommended for patients receiving liposomal vincristine.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Intravenous Administration
      Description
      Liposomal vincristine is for intravenous (IV) use only; fatal events have occurred if given by other routes of administration.
Call 1-888-292-9617 with any questions about the preparation of liposomal vincristine.
Liposomal vincristine takes approximately 60 to 90 minutes to prepare; the preparer should have uninterrupted time.
Preparation steps that involve mixing should be done in a biological safety cabinet or by other established pharmacy safety procedures for the preparation of hazardous drugs.
The manufacturer will provide the following to the medical facility at the initial order of liposomal vincristine: 1) tongs, and 2) either a water bath, calibrated thermometer, and calibrated electronic timer (replaced every 2 years) or a block heater (replaced every 5 years).
Additional required items prior to drug preparation are 1) liposomal vincristine kit (vincristine sulfate injection 1 mg/mL, sphingomyelin/cholesterol liposome injection 103 mg/mL, and sodium phosphate injection 14.2 mg/mL, flotation ring, overlabel for the final syringe admixture, and the infusion bag label); 2) sterile venting needle or another suitable device equipped with a sterile 0.2-micron filter; 3) 1-mL or 3-mL sterile syringe with needle; and a 5-mL sterile syringe with needle.
Deviations in temperature, time, and preparation procedures may fail to ensure proper encapsulation of vincristine sulfate into the liposomes; the components of the kit should be discarded and a new kit should be used to prepare the dose if the preparation deviates from the instructions.
Preparation Using a Water Bath
Fill a water bath with water to at least 8 centimeters (3.2 inches) from the bottom and maintain this minimum water level throughout the procedure; the water bath must remain outside of the sterile area.
Place a calibrated thermometer in the water bath to monitor water temperature; leave thermometer in the water bath until the procedure is complete.
Preheat the water bath to 63 to 67 degrees C; maintain this water temperature until the procedure is complete.
Remove the caps on all vials and swab the vials with sterile alcohol pads.
Vent the sodium phosphate injection vial with a sterile venting needle equipped with a sterile 0.2-micron filter (or other suitable venting device); position the venting needle point well above liquid level before adding sphingomyelin/cholesterol liposome injection and vincristine sulfate injection.
Withdraw 1 mL of sphingomyelin/cholesterol liposome injection and inject into the sodium phosphate injection vial.
Withdraw 5 mL of vincristine sulfate injection and inject into the sodium phosphate injection vial; remove the venting needle and gently invert the sodium phosphate injection vial 5 times to mix (do NOT shake).
The final vial admixture contains liposomal vincristine 5 mg/31 mL (0.16 mg/mL).
Fit the flotation ring around the neck of the final vial admixture.
Confirm that the water bath temperature is 63 to 67 degrees C using a calibrated thermometer; remove the final vial admixture from the biological safety cabinet and place into the water bath for 10 minutes using the calibrated electronic timer; monitor to ensure the desired temperature is maintained.
After placing the final vial admixture into the water bath, immediately record the constitution start time and water temperature on the liposomal vincristine overlabel.
Confirm that the water temperature is 63 to 67 degrees C using the calibrated thermometer at the end of the 10 minutes; using tongs (to avoid burns), remove the vial from the water bath and remove the flotation ring.
Record the final constitution time and the water temperature on the liposomal vincristine overlabel.
After drying the exterior of the final vial admixture with a clean paper towel, affix the liposomal vincristine overlabel and gently invert 5 times to mix; do not shake.
Allow the final vial admixture to equilibrate for at least 30 minutes at room temperature (15 to 30 degrees C; 59 to 86 degrees F); swab the top of the vial with a sterile alcohol pad and return the vial back to the biological safety cabinet.
Empty, clean, and dry the water bath after each use.
Storage of the final vial admixture: Store at room temperature for up to 12 hours.
Preparation Using a Block Heater
Do NOT use water with the block heater; additionally, the flotation ring included in the liposomal vincristine kit is not required for the block heater application.
Arrange the 3 heater blocks in the block heater with the block holding the constitution vial centered between the 2 other blank heater blocks.
Place a calibrated thermometer in the block opening adjacent to the vial well to monitor the temperature; leave the thermometer in the block opening until the procedure has been completed.
Turn on the block heater and set the controller to 75 degrees C; verify the block temperature by checking that the thermometer inserted in the block reads within 2 degrees C of this temperature.
Equilibrate the heating block to the 75 degrees C +/- 2 degrees C for 15 minutes; maintain this block temperature until completion of the procedure.
Remove the caps on all vials and swab the vials with sterile alcohol pads.
Vent the sodium phosphate injection vial with a sterile venting needle equipped with a sterile 0.2-micron filter (or other suitable venting device); position the venting needle point well above liquid level before adding sphingomyelin/cholesterol liposome injection and vincristine sulfate injection.
Withdraw 1 mL of sphingomyelin/cholesterol liposome injection and inject into the sodium phosphate injection vial.
Withdraw 5 mL of vincristine sulfate injection and inject into the sodium phosphate injection vial; remove the venting needle and gently invert the final vial admixture 5 times to mix (do NOT shake).
The final vial admixture contains liposomal vincristine 5 mg/31 mL (0.16 mg/mL).
Confirm that the block heater temperature is 73 to 77 degrees C using a calibrated thermometer; remove the final vial admixture from the biological safety cabinet and place into the block heater for 18 minutes using the calibrated electronic timer; monitor to ensure the desired temperature is maintained.
After placing the final vial admixture into the block heater, immediately record the constitution start time and water temperature on the liposomal vincristine overlabel; only use the calibrated thermometer inserted in the block to monitor temperature.
Confirm that the block heater temperature is 73 to 77 degrees C using the calibrated thermometer at the end of the 18 minutes; using tongs (to avoid burns), remove the vial from the block heater.
Record the final constitution time and the block heater temperature on the liposomal vincristine overlabel.
Affix the liposomal vincristine overlabel and gently invert 5 times to mix; do not shake.
Allow the final vial admixture to equilibrate for at least 30 minutes at room temperature (15 to 30 degrees C; 59 to 86 degrees F); swab the top of the vial with a sterile alcohol pad and return the vial back to the biological safety cabinet.
Storage of the final vial admixture: Store at room temperature for up to 12 hours.
Dilution
Withdraw the calculated liposomal vincrisitine dose (based on actual body surface area) from the final vial admixure.
Remove the volume corresponding to the liposomal vincristine dose from an infusion bag containing 100 mL of 5% Dextrose injection or 0.9% Sodium Chloride injection; inject the dose of liposomal vincristine into the infusion bag for a final infusion bag volume of 100 mL.
Complete the information required on the infusion bag label and affix to the infusion bag.
Intravenous (IV) Infusion
Administer the diluted liposomal vincristine solution IV over 1 hour through a secure and free-flowing venous access line; complete the infusion within 12 hours of drug preparation.
Discontinue the infusion immediately and consider local treatment measures if extravasation is suspected.
Do not use with in-line filters; do not mix with other drugs.
    Name
    Injectable Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    Dosage not established.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    Dosage not established.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Dosage not established.
  Renal Impairment
  Dosage not established.
