=== Afatinib — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 3820)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Afatinib is an oral, selective epidermal growth factor receptor-tyrosine kinase inhibitor (EGFR-TKI) indicated for the treatment of metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with nonresistant EGFR mutations and in platinum-resistant metastatic NSCLC (not selected for EGFR).

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 40 mg PO once daily.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): dehydration, renal failure, cheilitis, oral ulceration, blurred vision, keratitis, lacrimation, ocular inflammation, ocular pain, photosensitivity, conjunctivitis, cystitis, infection, acute respiratory distress syndrome (ards), dyspnea, interstitial lung disease, pneumonitis

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Asian patients, pulmonary disease Use afatinib with caution in patients who have a history of pre-existing pulmonary disease. Severe pneumonitis/interstitial lung disease has been reported in patients treated with afatinib; the incidence appears to be higher in Asian patients compared to White... Patient counseling: Advise patients to use sunscreen and minimize sun exposure with protective clothing during treatment. Emetic risk: Minimal/Low Hazardous drug: NIOSH 2024 List: Table 2

AFATINIB

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

GILOTRIF

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC)

For the first-line treatment of metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with nonresistant epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutations
Oral dosage
Adults


40 mg PO once daily until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. First-line treatment with afatinib significantly improved median progression-free survival (PFS) as assessed by an independent review committee compared with pemetrexed plus cisplatin (11.1 months vs. 6.9 months) in patients with EGFR mutation-positive metastatic NSCLC in a multicenter, randomized, open-label clinical trial (LUX-LUNG3); the median PFS in those with exon 19 deletions and L858R EGFR mutations was 13.6 months for afatinib and 6.9 months for chemotherapy. The median overall response rate also improved (50.4% vs. 19.1%) in the afatinib arm; the median duration of response was 12.5 months versus 6.7 months, respectively. Treatment with afatinib did not significantly improve overall survival at the final pre-planned analysis (28.2 months vs. 28.2 months).


For the treatment of metastatic squamous non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) that has progressed after platinum-based chemotherapy
Oral dosage
Adults


40 mg PO once daily until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. Treatment with afatinib significantly improved progression-free survival (2.4 months vs. 1.9 months) and overall survival (7.9 months vs. 6.8 months) compared with erlotinib in patients with metastatic squamous NSCLC who experienced disease progression following at least 4 cycles of a platinum-based doublet chemotherapy regimen in a multicenter, randomized, open-label clinical trial (LUX-LUNG8). The overall response rate as assessed by an independent review committee was 3% (95% CI, 1.7% to 5.8%) for patients treated with afatinib compared with 2% (95% CI, 0.8% to 4.3%) for those who received erlotinib.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Asian patients, pulmonary disease


Use afatinib with caution in patients who have a history of pre-existing pulmonary disease. Severe pneumonitis/interstitial lung disease has been reported in patients treated with afatinib; the incidence appears to be higher in Asian patients compared to White patients. Monitor patients for new or worsening respiratory symptoms including fever, cough, or dyspnea. Immediately interrupt afatinib therapy in patients with new or worsening respiratory symptoms and permanently discontinue therapy if no other potential causes are identified.


Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

renal failure, renal impairment


Reduce the dose of afatinib for patients with severe renal impairment (eGFR 15 to 29 mL/min/1.72 m2) due to increased afatinib exposure which may lead to an increased incidence of adverse reaction; afatinib has not been studied in patients with renal failure (eGFR less than 15 mL/min/1.73m2) or those on dialysis. A dose reduction is not necessary in patients with mild or moderate renal impairment (eGFR 30 to 89 mL/min/1.73m2).


contact lenses, dry eye disease, keratitis


Use afatinib with caution in patients with a history of keratitis, ulcerative keratitis, or severe dry eye disease. Keratitis has occurred in patients treated with afatinib; patients who wear contact lenses are also at increased risk. Patients who develop an onset of new eye symptoms or visual disturbance such as ocular pain, inflammation, lacrimation, light sensitivity, blurred vision, and/or red eye should be evaluated and managed appropriately; an interruption or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary.


Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure


Closely monitor patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C) for adverse reactions; although mild to moderate hepatic impairment did not affect afatinib exposure, it has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment or hepatic failure. Hepatotoxicity has been reported in patients treated with afatinib. Periodically monitor liver function tests; an interruption or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary if hepatotoxicity occurs.


diverticulosis, geriatric, intestinal metastases, peptic ulcer disease


Use afatinib with caution in geriatric patients, in patients with a history of diverticulosis, peptic ulcer disease, or intestinal metastases, and in patients receiving concomitant therapy with corticosteroids, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) or anti-angiogenic agents. GI perforation has been reported in patients treated with afatinib in clinical trials and these patients may be at increased risk. Permanently discontinue afatinib in patients who develop GI perforation.


people who can cause pregnancy in others, people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk


Counsel people who may become pregnant and people who can cause pregnancy in others about the reproductive risk associated with afatinib. Afatanib may cause fetal harm if administered during pregnancy. Advise people who may become pregnant to use effective contraception during treatment and for at least 2 weeks after the last dose of afatinib. Based on animal data, afatinib may cause impaired fertility in females and males of reproductive potential; it is unknown if these effects are reversible.


breast-feeding


Advise individuals to avoid breast-feeding during afatinib treatment and for 2 weeks after the last dose. There is a potential for serious adverse effects in the breast-fed child. There are no data on the presence of afatinib in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production.


pregnancy


Avoid the use of afatinib during pregnancy and for at least 2 weeks after the last dose. There are no available data on the use of afatinib during human pregnancy. However, its mechanism of action and findings from animal reproductive studies, afatinib can cause fetal harm. If used during pregnancy, apprise the pregnant person of the potential harm to the fetus. Administration of afatinib to pregnant rabbits during organogenesis at exposures approximately 0.2 times or more the exposure by AUC at the recommended human dose of 40 mg resulted in increased post-implantation loss. In animals showing maternal toxicity, abortion at late gestational stages occurred. At higher exposures (0.7 times the exposure by AUC at the recommended human dose), there were decreased fetal weights, increased incidence of runts, and visceral/dermal variations. Skeletal alterations (including incomplete or delayed ossifications) and reduced fetal weight occurred in an embryo-fetal development study in rats exposed to afatinib at approximately twice the exposure based on AUC at the recommended human dose. The American Society of Clinical Oncology provides additional information on the use of certain medications for the management of cancer during pregnancy.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Avoid the use of afatinib during pregnancy and for at least 2 weeks after the last dose. There are no available data on the use of afatinib during human pregnancy. However, its mechanism of action and findings from animal reproductive studies, afatinib can cause fetal harm. If used during pregnancy, apprise the pregnant person of the potential harm to the fetus. Administration of afatinib to pregnant rabbits during organogenesis at exposures approximately 0.2 times or more the exposure by AUC at the recommended human dose of 40 mg resulted in increased post-implantation loss. In animals showing maternal toxicity, abortion at late gestational stages occurred. At higher exposures (0.7 times the exposure by AUC at the recommended human dose), there were decreased fetal weights, increased incidence of runts, and visceral/dermal variations. Skeletal alterations (including incomplete or delayed ossifications) and reduced fetal weight occurred in an embryo-fetal development study in rats exposed to afatinib at approximately twice the exposure based on AUC at the recommended human dose. The American Society of Clinical Oncology provides additional information on the use of certain medications for the management of cancer during pregnancy.


Interactions

Abrocitinib: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of abrocitinib and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of abrocitinib. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Adagrasib: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of adagrasib and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of adagrasib. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and adagrasib is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC of afatinib was 119% when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Amiodarone: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of amiodarone and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of amiodarone. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and amiodarone is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC of afatinib was 119% when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of clarithromycin and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of clarithromycin. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and clarithromycin is a P-gp inhibitor; coadministration may increase plasma concentrations of afatinib. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Apalutamide: (Major) Increase the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg as tolerated if the concomitant use with apalutamide is necessary; resume the previous dose of afatinib 2 to 3 days after discontinuation of apalutamide. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and apalutamide is a weak P-gp inducer; coadministration may decrease plasma concentrations of afatinib. Pre-treatment with another strong P-gp inducer decreased afatinib exposure by 34%.
Asciminib: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of asciminib and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of asciminib. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and asciminib is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC of afatinib was 119% when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of cobicistat and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of cobicistat. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and cobicistat is a P-gp inhibitor; coadministration may increase plasma concentrations of afatinib. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Azithromycin: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of azithromycin and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of azithromycin. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and azithromycin is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC of afatinib was 119% when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Belumosudil: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of belumosudil and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of belumosudil. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and belumosudil is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC of afatinib was 119% when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of lenacapavir and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of lenacapavir. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and lenacapavir is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC of afatinib was 119% when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Brigatinib: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of brigatinib and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of brigatinib. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate. Brigatinib is a P-gp inhibitor in vitro and may have the potential to increase concentrations of P-gp substrates. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Cannabidiol: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of cannabidiol and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of cannabidiol. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and cannabidiol is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Capmatinib: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of capmatinib and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of capmatinib. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and capmatinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Increase the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg as tolerated if the concomitant use with carbamazepine is necessary; resume the previous dose of afatinib 2 to 3 days after discontinuation of carbamazepine. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and carbamazepine is a P-gp inducer; coadministration may decrease plasma concentrations of afatinib. Pre-treatment with another strong P-gp inducer decreased afatinib exposure by 34%.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of carvedilol and afatinib is necessary, consider reducing the afatinib dose by 10 mg per day if the original dose is not tolerated; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of carvedilol. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and inhibitor in vitro, and carvedilol is a weak P-gp inhibitor; coadministration may increase plasma concentrations of afatinib. Administration of another P-gp inhibitor, ritonavir (200 mg twice daily for 3 days), 1 hour before afatinib (single dose) increased the afatinib AUC and Cmax by 48% and 39%, respectively; there was no change in the afatinib AUC when ritonavir was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with ritonavir, and 111% and 105% when ritonavir was administered 6 hours after afatinib. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise.
Cholera Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the live cholera vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to cholera bacteria after receiving the vaccine.
Clarithromycin: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of clarithromycin and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of clarithromycin. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and clarithromycin is a P-gp inhibitor; coadministration may increase plasma concentrations of afatinib. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Cobicistat: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of cobicistat and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of cobicistat. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and cobicistat is a P-gp inhibitor; coadministration may increase plasma concentrations of afatinib. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Conivaptan: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of conivaptan and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of conivaptan. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and conivaptan is a P-gp inhibitor; coadministration may increase plasma concentrations of afatinib. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of cyclosporine and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of cyclosporine. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and cyclosporine is a P-gp inhibitor; coadministration may increase plasma concentrations of afatinib. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Danicopan: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of danicopan and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of danicopan. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and danicopan is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC of afatinib was 119% when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Daraxonrasib: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of daraxonrasib and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of daraxonrasib. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and daraxonrasib is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC of afatinib was 119% when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Daridorexant: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of daridorexant and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of daridorexant. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and daridorexant is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC of afatinib was 119% when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of cobicistat and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of cobicistat. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and cobicistat is a P-gp inhibitor; coadministration may increase plasma concentrations of afatinib. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of cobicistat and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of cobicistat. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and cobicistat is a P-gp inhibitor; coadministration may increase plasma concentrations of afatinib. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Dengue Tetravalent Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of the live dengue virus vaccine with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of quinidine and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of quinidine. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and quinidine is a P-gp inhibitor; coadministration may increase plasma concentrations of afatinib. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Dronedarone: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of dronedarone and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of dronedarone. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and dronedarone is a P-gp inhibitor; coadministration may increase plasma concentrations of afatinib. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Elacestrant: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of elacestrant and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of elacestrant. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and elacestrant is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC of afatinib was 119% when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Elexacaftor; tezacaftor; ivacaftor: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of ivacaftor and afatinib is necessary, consider reducing the afatinib dose by 10 mg per day if the original dose is not tolerated; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of ivacaftor. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and inhibitor in vitro. Ivacaftor and its M1 metabolite are weak P-gp inhibitors; coadministration may increase plasma concentrations of afatinib. Coadministration of ivacaftor with digoxin, a sensitive P-gp substrate, increased digoxin exposure by 1.3-fold. Administration of another P-gp inhibitor, ritonavir (200 mg twice daily for 3 days), 1 hour before afatinib (single dose) increased the afatinib AUC and Cmax by 48% and 39%, respectively; there was no change in the afatinib AUC when ritonavir was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with ritonavir, and 111% and 105% when ritonavir was administered 6 hours after afatinib. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise.
Eliglustat: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of eliglustat and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of eliglustat. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and eliglustat is a P-gp inhibitor; coadministration may increase plasma concentrations of afatinib. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of cobicistat and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of cobicistat. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and cobicistat is a P-gp inhibitor; coadministration may increase plasma concentrations of afatinib. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of cobicistat and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of cobicistat. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and cobicistat is a P-gp inhibitor; coadministration may increase plasma concentrations of afatinib. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Enasidenib: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of enasidenib and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of enasidenib. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and enasidenib is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Ensitrelvir: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of ensitrelvir and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of ensitrelvir. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC of afatinib was 119% when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Erdafitinib: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of erdafitinib and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of erdafitinib. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC of afatinib was 119% when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Erythromycin: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of erythromycin and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of erythromycin. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and erythromycin is a P-gp inhibitor; coadministration may increase plasma concentrations of afatinib. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Etravirine: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of etravirine and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of etravirine. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and etravirine is a P-gp inhibitor; coadministration may increase plasma concentrations of afatinib. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Flibanserin: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of flibanserin and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of flibanserin. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and flibanserin is a P-gp inhibitor; coadministration may increase plasma concentrations of afatinib. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Fosamprenavir: (Major) Increase the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg as tolerated if the concomitant use with fosamprenavir is necessary; resume the previous dose of afatinib 2 to 3 days after discontinuation of fosamprenavir. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and fosamprenavir is a P-gp inducer; coadministration may decrease plasma concentrations of afatinib. Pre-treatment with another strong P-gp inducer decreased afatinib exposure by 34%.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Increase the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg as tolerated if the concomitant use with fosphenytoin is necessary; resume the previous dose of afatinib 2 to 3 days after discontinuation of fosphenytoin. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and fosphenytoin is a P-gp inducer; coadministration may decrease plasma concentrations of afatinib. Pre-treatment with another strong P-gp inducer decreased afatinib exposure by 34%.
Fostamatinib: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of fostamatinib and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of fostamatinib. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and fostamatinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC of afatinib was 119% when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Gilteritinib: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of gilteritinib and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of gilteritinib. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and gilteritinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Glecaprevir; Pibrentasvir: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of glecaprevir and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of glecaprevir. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and glecaprevir is a P-gp inhibitor; coadministration may increase plasma concentrations of afatinib. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib. (Moderate) If the concomitant use of pibrentasvir and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of pibrentasvir. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and pibrentasvir is a P-gp inhibitor; coadministration may increase plasma concentrations of afatinib. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Imlunestrant: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of imlunestrant and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of imlunestrant. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and imlunestrant is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC of afatinib was 119% when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Istradefylline: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of istradefylline and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of istradefylline. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate. Istradefylline inhibits P-gp. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Itraconazole: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of itraconazole and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of itraconazole. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and itraconazole is a P-gp inhibitor; coadministration may increase plasma concentrations of afatinib. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Ivacaftor: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of ivacaftor and afatinib is necessary, consider reducing the afatinib dose by 10 mg per day if the original dose is not tolerated; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of ivacaftor. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and inhibitor in vitro. Ivacaftor and its M1 metabolite are weak P-gp inhibitors; coadministration may increase plasma concentrations of afatinib. Coadministration of ivacaftor with digoxin, a sensitive P-gp substrate, increased digoxin exposure by 1.3-fold. Administration of another P-gp inhibitor, ritonavir (200 mg twice daily for 3 days), 1 hour before afatinib (single dose) increased the afatinib AUC and Cmax by 48% and 39%, respectively; there was no change in the afatinib AUC when ritonavir was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with ritonavir, and 111% and 105% when ritonavir was administered 6 hours after afatinib. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise.
Ketoconazole: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of ketoconazole and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of ketoconazole. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and ketoconazole is a P-gp inhibitor; coadministration may increase plasma concentrations of afatinib. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of clarithromycin and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of clarithromycin. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and clarithromycin is a P-gp inhibitor; coadministration may increase plasma concentrations of afatinib. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Lapatinib: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of lapatinib and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of lapatinib. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and lapatinib is a P-gp inhibitor; coadministration may increase plasma concentrations of afatinib. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Lasmiditan: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of lasmiditan and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of lasmiditan. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and lasmiditan is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Ledipasvir; Sofosbuvir: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of ledipasvir; sofosbuvir and afatinib is necessary, consider reducing the afatinib dose by 10 mg per day if the original dose is not tolerated; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of ledipasvir; sofosbuvir. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and inhibitor in vitro, and ledipasvir is a weak P-gp inhibitor; coadministration may increase plasma concentrations of afatinib. Administration of another P-gp inhibitor, ritonavir (200 mg twice daily for 3 days), 1 hour before afatinib (single dose) increased the afatinib AUC and Cmax by 48% and 39%, respectively; there was no change in the afatinib AUC when ritonavir was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with ritonavir, and 111% and 105% when ritonavir was administered 6 hours after afatinib. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise.
Lenacapavir: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of lenacapavir and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of lenacapavir. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and lenacapavir is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC of afatinib was 119% when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Levacetylleucine: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of levacetylleucine and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of levacetylleucine. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and levacetylleucine is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC of afatinib was 119% when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Levoketoconazole: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of ketoconazole and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of ketoconazole. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and ketoconazole is a P-gp inhibitor; coadministration may increase plasma concentrations of afatinib. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Lomitapide: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of lomitapide and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of lomitapide. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and lomitapide is a P-gp inhibitor; coadministration may increase plasma concentrations of afatinib. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Lonafarnib: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of lonafarnib and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of lonafarnib. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and lonafarnib is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of ritonavir and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of ritonavir. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and ritonavir is a P-gp inhibitor; coadministration may increase plasma concentrations of afatinib. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Lorlatinib: (Major) Increase the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg as tolerated if the concomitant use with lorlatinib is necessary; resume the previous dose of afatinib 2 to 3 days after discontinuation of lorlatinib. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and lorlatinib is a P-gp inducer; coadministration may decrease plasma concentrations of afatinib. Pre-treatment with another strong P-gp inducer decreased afatinib exposure by 34%.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of afatinib with lumacaftor; ivacaftor if possible, due to unpredictability of clinical effect. Although the clinical significance of this interaction is unknown, concurrent use of afatinib and lumacaftor; ivacaftor may alter afatinib exposure; caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together. Afatinib is a substrate of the drug transporter P-glycoprotein (P-gp). In vitro data suggest that lumacaftor; ivacaftor has the potential to both induce and inhibit P-gp. The net effect of lumacaftor; ivacaftor on P-gp transport is not clear, but substrate exposure may be affected leading to either decreased efficacy of afatinib or increased or prolonged therapeutic effects and adverse events. FDA-approved labeling for afatinib recommends reducing the dose by 10 mg per day if the original dose is not tolerated when administered with P-gp inhibitors, and increasing the dose by 10 mg/day as tolerated when given with P-gp inducers. Administration of the P-gp inhibitor, ritonavir (200 mg twice daily for 3 days), 1 hour before afatinib (single dose) increased the afatinib AUC and Cmax by 48% and 39%, respectively; there was no change in the afatinib AUC when ritonavir was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with ritonavir, and 111% and 105% when ritonavir was administered 6 hours after afatinib. Pre-treatment with a strong P-gp inducer, rifampicin (600 mg daily for 7 days), decreased the afatinib AUC by 34% and the Cmax by 22%. (Moderate) If the concomitant use of ivacaftor and afatinib is necessary, consider reducing the afatinib dose by 10 mg per day if the original dose is not tolerated; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of ivacaftor. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and inhibitor in vitro. Ivacaftor and its M1 metabolite are weak P-gp inhibitors; coadministration may increase plasma concentrations of afatinib. Coadministration of ivacaftor with digoxin, a sensitive P-gp substrate, increased digoxin exposure by 1.3-fold. Administration of another P-gp inhibitor, ritonavir (200 mg twice daily for 3 days), 1 hour before afatinib (single dose) increased the afatinib AUC and Cmax by 48% and 39%, respectively; there was no change in the afatinib AUC when ritonavir was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with ritonavir, and 111% and 105% when ritonavir was administered 6 hours after afatinib. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of afatinib with lumacaftor; ivacaftor if possible, due to unpredictability of clinical effect. Although the clinical significance of this interaction is unknown, concurrent use of afatinib and lumacaftor; ivacaftor may alter afatinib exposure; caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together. Afatinib is a substrate of the drug transporter P-glycoprotein (P-gp). In vitro data suggest that lumacaftor; ivacaftor has the potential to both induce and inhibit P-gp. The net effect of lumacaftor; ivacaftor on P-gp transport is not clear, but substrate exposure may be affected leading to either decreased efficacy of afatinib or increased or prolonged therapeutic effects and adverse events. FDA-approved labeling for afatinib recommends reducing the dose by 10 mg per day if the original dose is not tolerated when administered with P-gp inhibitors, and increasing the dose by 10 mg/day as tolerated when given with P-gp inducers. Administration of the P-gp inhibitor, ritonavir (200 mg twice daily for 3 days), 1 hour before afatinib (single dose) increased the afatinib AUC and Cmax by 48% and 39%, respectively; there was no change in the afatinib AUC when ritonavir was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with ritonavir, and 111% and 105% when ritonavir was administered 6 hours after afatinib. Pre-treatment with a strong P-gp inducer, rifampicin (600 mg daily for 7 days), decreased the afatinib AUC by 34% and the Cmax by 22%.
Maribavir: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of maribavir and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of maribavir. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and maribavir is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Mavorixafor: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of mavorixafor and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of mavorixafor. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and mavorixafor is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC of afatinib was 119% when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Mefloquine: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of mefloquine and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of mefloquine. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and mefloquine is a P-gp inhibitor; coadministration may increase plasma concentrations of afatinib. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Meropenem: (Major) Increase the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg as tolerated if the concomitant use with meropenem is necessary; resume the previous dose of afatinib 2 to 3 days after discontinuation of meropenem. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and meropenem is a P-gp inducer; coadministration may decrease plasma concentrations of afatinib. Pre-treatment with another strong P-gp inducer decreased afatinib exposure by 34%.
Meropenem; Vaborbactam: (Major) Increase the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg as tolerated if the concomitant use with meropenem is necessary; resume the previous dose of afatinib 2 to 3 days after discontinuation of meropenem. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and meropenem is a P-gp inducer; coadministration may decrease plasma concentrations of afatinib. Pre-treatment with another strong P-gp inducer decreased afatinib exposure by 34%.
miFEPRIStone: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of mifepristone and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of mifepristone. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and mifepristone is a P-gp inhibitor; coadministration may increase plasma concentrations of afatinib. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Mitapivat: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of mitapivat and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of mitapivat. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Nelfinavir: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of nelfinavir and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of nelfinavir. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and nelfinavir is a P-gp inhibitor; coadministration may increase plasma concentrations of afatinib. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Neratinib: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of neratinib and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of neratinib. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and neratinib is a P-gp inhibitor; coadministration may increase plasma concentrations of afatinib. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of ritonavir and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of ritonavir. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and ritonavir is a P-gp inhibitor; coadministration may increase plasma concentrations of afatinib. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Osimertinib: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of osimertinib and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of osimertinib. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate. Osimertinib inhibits P-gp. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Pacritinib: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of pacritinib and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of pacritinib. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and pacritinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC of afatinib was 119% when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Increase the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg as tolerated if the concomitant use with phenobarbital is necessary; resume the previous dose of afatinib 2 to 3 days after discontinuation of phenobarbital. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and phenobarbital is a P-gp inducer; coadministration may decrease plasma concentrations of afatinib. Pre-treatment with another strong P-gp inducer decreased afatinib exposure by 34%.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Increase the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg as tolerated if the concomitant use with phenobarbital is necessary; resume the previous dose of afatinib 2 to 3 days after discontinuation of phenobarbital. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and phenobarbital is a P-gp inducer; coadministration may decrease plasma concentrations of afatinib. Pre-treatment with another strong P-gp inducer decreased afatinib exposure by 34%.
Phenytoin: (Major) Increase the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg as tolerated if the concomitant use with phenytoin is necessary; resume the previous dose of afatinib 2 to 3 days after discontinuation of phenytoin. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and phenytoin is a P-gp inducer; coadministration may decrease plasma concentrations of afatinib. Pre-treatment with another strong P-gp inducer decreased afatinib exposure by 34%.
Pirtobrutinib: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of pirtobrutinib and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of pirtobrutinib. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and pirtobrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC of afatinib was 119% when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Posaconazole: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of posaconazole and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of posaconazole. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and posaconazole is a P-gp inhibitor; coadministration may increase plasma concentrations of afatinib. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Pretomanid: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of pretomanid and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of pretomanid. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and pretomanid is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC of afatinib was 119% when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Primaquine: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of primaquine and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of primaquine. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and primaquine is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC of afatinib was 119% when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Primidone: (Major) Increase the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg as tolerated if the concomitant use with primidone is necessary; resume the previous dose of afatinib 2 to 3 days after discontinuation of primidone. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and primidone is a P-gp inducer; coadministration may decrease plasma concentrations of afatinib. Pre-treatment with another strong P-gp inducer decreased afatinib exposure by 34%.
Propafenone: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of propafenone and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of propafenone. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and propafenone is a P-gp inhibitor; coadministration may increase plasma concentrations of afatinib. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
quiNIDine: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of quinidine and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of quinidine. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and quinidine is a P-gp inhibitor; coadministration may increase plasma concentrations of afatinib. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Ranolazine: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of ranolazine and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of ranolazine. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and ranolazine is a P-gp inhibitor; coadministration may increase plasma concentrations of afatinib. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Remibrutinib: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of remibrutinib and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of remibrutinib. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC of afatinib was 119% when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
rifAMPin: (Major) Increase the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg as tolerated if the concomitant use with rifampin is necessary; resume the previous dose of afatinib 2 to 3 days after discontinuation of rifampin. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and rifampin is a P-gp inducer; coadministration may decrease plasma concentrations of afatinib. Pre-treatment with rifampin decreased afatinib exposure by 34%.
Rilzabrutinib: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of rilzabrutinib. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and rilzabrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC of afatinib was 119% when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Ritonavir: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of ritonavir and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of ritonavir. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and ritonavir is a P-gp inhibitor; coadministration may increase plasma concentrations of afatinib. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Rolapitant: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of rolapitant and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of rolapitant. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and rolapitant is a P-gp inhibitor; coadministration may increase plasma concentrations of afatinib. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Saquinavir: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of saquinavir and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of saquinavir. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and saquinavir is a P-gp inhibitor; coadministration may increase plasma concentrations of afatinib. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Sarecycline: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of sarecycline and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of sarecycline. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate; sarecycline is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) vaccines: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) mRNA Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) Recombinant Spike Protein Nanoparticle Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
Selpercatinib: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of selpercatinib and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of selpercatinib. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and selpercatinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Sevabertinib: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of sevabertinib and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of sevabertinib. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and sevabertinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC of afatinib was 119% when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Sodium Phenylbutyrate; Taurursodiol: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of taurursodiol and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of taurursodiol. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and taurursodiol is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC of afatinib was 119% when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of velpatasvir and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of velpatasvir. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and velpatasvir is a P-gp inhibitor; coadministration may increase plasma concentrations of afatinib. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir; Voxilaprevir: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of velpatasvir and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of velpatasvir. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and velpatasvir is a P-gp inhibitor; coadministration may increase plasma concentrations of afatinib. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib. (Moderate) If the concomitant use of voxilaprevir and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of voxilaprevir. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and voxilaprevir is a P-gp inhibitor; coadministration may increase plasma concentrations of afatinib. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
SORAfenib: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of sorafenib and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of sorafenib. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate. Sorafenib inhibits P-gp in vitro and may increase the concentrations of concomitantly administered drugs that are P-gp substrates. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Sotorasib: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of sotorasib and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of sotorasib. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and sotorasib is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Sparsentan: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of sparsentan and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of sparsentan. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC of afatinib was 119% when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Increase the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg as tolerated if the concomitant use with St. Johns Wort is necessary; resume the previous dose of afatinib 2 to 3 days after discontinuation of St. Johns Wort. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and St. Johns Wort is a P-gp inducer; coadministration may decrease plasma concentrations of afatinib. Pre-treatment with another strong P-gp inducer decreased afatinib exposure by 34%.
Tacrolimus: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of tacrolimus and afatinib is necessary, consider reducing the afatinib dose by 10 mg per day if the original dose is not tolerated; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of tacrolimus. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and inhibitor in vitro. While data is conflicting, tacrolimus may be a weak P-gp inhibitor; coadministration may increase plasma concentrations of afatinib. Administration of another P-gp inhibitor, ritonavir (200 mg twice daily for 3 days), 1 hour before afatinib (single dose) increased the afatinib AUC and Cmax by 48% and 39%, respectively; there was no change in the afatinib AUC when ritonavir was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with ritonavir, and 111% and 105% when ritonavir was administered 6 hours after afatinib. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise.
Tedizolid: (Moderate) If possible, stop use of afatinib temporarily during treatment with oral tedizolid. If coadministration cannot be avoided, closely monitor for afatinib-associated adverse events. Afatinib plasma concentrations may be increased when administered concurrently with oral tedizolid. Afatinib is an in vitro substrate of the Breast Cancer Resistance Protein (BCRP); oral tedizolid inhibits BCRP in the intestine.
Temsirolimus: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of temsirolimus and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of temsirolimus. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and temsirolimus is a P-gp inhibitor; coadministration may increase plasma concentrations of afatinib. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Tepotinib: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of tepotinib and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of tepotinib. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and tepotinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Tezacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of ivacaftor and afatinib is necessary, consider reducing the afatinib dose by 10 mg per day if the original dose is not tolerated; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of ivacaftor. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and inhibitor in vitro. Ivacaftor and its M1 metabolite are weak P-gp inhibitors; coadministration may increase plasma concentrations of afatinib. Coadministration of ivacaftor with digoxin, a sensitive P-gp substrate, increased digoxin exposure by 1.3-fold. Administration of another P-gp inhibitor, ritonavir (200 mg twice daily for 3 days), 1 hour before afatinib (single dose) increased the afatinib AUC and Cmax by 48% and 39%, respectively; there was no change in the afatinib AUC when ritonavir was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with ritonavir, and 111% and 105% when ritonavir was administered 6 hours after afatinib. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise.
Tipranavir: (Major) Increase the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg as tolerated if the concomitant use with tipranavir (boosted with ritonavir) is necessary; resume the previous dose of afatinib 2 to 3 days after discontinuation of tipranavir/ritonavir). Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate. When administered with ritonavir, P-gp is inhibited with the first dose of tipranavir followed by strong induction over time; coadministration may decrease plasma concentrations of afatinib. Pre-treatment with another strong P-gp inducer decreased afatinib exposure by 34%.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of verapamil and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of verapamil. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and verapamil is a P-gp inhibitor; coadministration may increase plasma concentrations of afatinib. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Trofinetide: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of trofinetide and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of trofinetide. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC of afatinib was 119% when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Tucatinib: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of tucatinib and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of tucatinib. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and tucatinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Vanzacaftor; Tezacaftor; Deutivacaftor: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC of afatinib was 119% when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Vanzacaftor; Tezacaftor; Deutivacaftor: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC of afatinib was 119% when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Vemurafenib: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of vemurafenib and afatinib is necessary, consider reducing the afatinib dose by 10 mg per day if the original dose is not tolerated; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of vemurafenib. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and inhibitor in vitro, and vemurafenib is a P-gp inhibitor; coadministration may increase plasma concentrations of afatinib. Coadministration of vemurafenib (960 mg twice daily for 22 days) with digoxin (single dose, 0.25 mg), a sensitive P-gp substrate, to 22 cancer patients increased the digoxin AUC and Cmax by 1.8-fold and 1.5-fold, respectively. Administration of another P-gp inhibitor, ritonavir (200 mg twice daily for 3 days), 1 hour before afatinib (single dose) increased the afatinib AUC and Cmax by 48% and 39%, respectively; there was no change in the afatinib AUC when ritonavir was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with ritonavir, and 111% and 105% when ritonavir was administered 6 hours after afatinib. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise.
Venetoclax: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of venetoclax and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of venetoclax. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and venetoclax is a P-gp inhibitor; coadministration may increase plasma concentrations of afatinib. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Vepdegestrant: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of vepdegestrant and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of vepdegestrant. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC of afatinib was 119% when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Verapamil: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of verapamil and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of verapamil. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and verapamil is a P-gp inhibitor; coadministration may increase plasma concentrations of afatinib. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Vimseltinib: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of vimseltinib and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of vimseltinib. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and vimseltinib is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC of afatinib was 119% when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Voclosporin: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of voclosporin and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of voclosporin. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and voclosporin is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib. The manufacturer of voclosporin recommends to reduce dosage of certain P-gp substrates with a narrow therapeutic window when co-administered with voclosporin.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of clarithromycin and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of clarithromycin. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and clarithromycin is a P-gp inhibitor; coadministration may increase plasma concentrations of afatinib. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Xanomeline; Trospium: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of xanomeline and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of xanomeline. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and xanomeline is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC of afatinib was 119% when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Zonisamide: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of zonisamide and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions, especially when starting or stopping zonisamide or changing the zonisamide dose. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of zonisamide. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and zonisamide is a P-gp inhibitor; coadministration may increase plasma concentrations of afatinib. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.


Adverse Reaction
dehydration, diarrhea, renal failure


Diarrhea has resulted in dehydration with or without renal impairment or renal failure across clinical trials; some cases were fatal. Diarrhea occurred in 75% to 96% of patients treated with afatinib in clinical trials (grade 3, 10% to 16%; grade 4, 0.8% or less), usually within the first 6 weeks of therapy. Renal impairment due to diarrhea-related dehydration occurred in 6% to 7% of patients who received afatinib (grade 3, 1.3% to 2%); serious cases of dehydration were reported in 1.3% or fewer patients. Decreased creatinine clearance from baseline was reported in 49% of patients receiving first-line treatment for metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with afatinib compared with 47% of those treated with pemetrexed plus cisplatin in 1 randomized clinical trial (grade 3, 2% vs. 1%). Advise patients to begin antidiarrheal treatment (e.g., loperamide) at the first onset of diarrhea and to continue it until there have been no loose bowel movements for 12 hours. Hold afatinib for patients who develop prolonged grade 2 diarrhea that lasts longer than 48 hours or any grade 3 diarrhea; therapy may be resumed (with or without a dose reduction) upon resolution to grade 1 diarrhea or less.


GI perforation


GI perforation occurred in 0.2% of patients treated with afatinib across clinical trials, including fatal cases. Permanently discontinue afatinib in patients who develop a GI perforation.


cheilitis, oral ulceration, stomatitis


Stomatitis including aphthous stomatitis, mucosal inflammation, oral ulceration, and oral mucosal erosion was reported in 71% of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients receiving first-line treatment with afatinib compared with 15% of those who received pemetrexed plus cisplatin in a randomized clinical trial (grade 3 or 4, 9% vs. 1%); cheilitis was reported in 12% of afatinib-treated patients. Stomatitis was reported in 30% of afatinib-treated NSCLC who had progressive disease after platinum-doublet therapy compared with 11% of those who received erlotinib in a separate randomized controlled trial (grade 3 or 4, 4% vs. 1%).


anorexia, weight loss


Anorexia or decreased appetite was reported in 25% to 29% of patients treated with afatinib in 2 clinical trials (grade 3, 3% to 4%). Weight loss occurred in 17% of patients treated with afatinib in 1 of these trials (grade 3, 1%).


nausea, vomiting


Nausea (21% to 25%; grade 3, 2% to 4%) and vomiting (13% to 23%; grade 3, 1% to 4%) have been reported in patients treated with afatinib in clinical trials.


acne vulgaris, acneiform rash, bullous rash, erythema, exfoliative dermatitis, folliculitis, maculopapular rash, palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (hand and foot syndrome), pruritus, rash, skin ulcer, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, xerosis


Cutaneous reactions including rash, erythema, and acneiform rash occurred in 70% to 90% of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients treated with afatinib in 2 randomized clinical trials (grade 3, 7% to 16%); grade 1 to 3 palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (hand and foot syndrome) occurred in 1.5% to 7% of patients in these trials. The appearance of the rash is typically erythematous and maculopapular (maculopapular rash) and may resemble acne with follicular pustules, but is histopathologically different. It commonly occurs on the face, upper chest, and back and may be severe with desquamation. Sun exposure may worsen the reaction. The term rash included acne vulgaris, dermatitis, dermatosis, drug eruption, eczema, erythema, exfoliative dermatitis, folliculitis, maculopapular rash, skin erosion, skin fissures, and skin ulcer. Hold afatinib treatment for patients who develop prolonged grade 2 cutaneous reactions lasting more than 7 days, intolerable grade 2 reactions, or grade 3 reactions; a dose reduction is necessary when the reaction resolves to grade 1 or less (or baseline). Xerosis/dry skin (31% or less), pruritus (10% to 21%) and nail disorders (2.8% to 9.2%) have also been reported in patients who received afatinib. Grade 3 cutaneous reactions including bullous rash or blistering and exfoliating lesions were reported in 0.2% of afatinib-treated patients across clinical trials; discontinue afatinib in patients who develop life-threatening bullous, blistering, or exfoliating skin lesions. Toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN) and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS) have been reported in postmarketing experience with afatinib; these result from a mechanism of toxicity that is distinct from the bullous skin lesions secondary to the pharmacologic action of the drug on the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR). Discontinue afatinib if TEN or SJS is suspected.


blurred vision, keratitis, lacrimation, ocular inflammation, ocular pain, photosensitivity


Keratitis, characterized as acute or worsening ocular inflammation, lacrimation, photosensitivity, blurred vision, ocular pain, and/or red eye occurred in 0.7% of patients treated with afatinib across clinical trials (grade 3, 0.05%). In individual trials, keratitis was reported in 2.2% (grade 3, 0.4%) of patients receiving first-line afatinib for the treatment of metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and in 0.3% of patients receiving afatinib for the treatment of NSCLC that progressed after platinum-doublet chemotherapy. Interrupt afatinib therapy if keratitis is suspected and consider discontinuation of therapy if ulcerative keratitis is confirmed; permanently discontinue therapy for persistent ulcerative keratitis. The risks and benefits of continued treatment with afatinib after a diagnosis of keratitis should be carefully considered.


conjunctivitis, cystitis, infection


Paronychia including nail infection and nailbed infection occurred in 58% (grade 3, 11%) of patients who received first-line treatment with afatinib for metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) compared with none of those receiving pemetrexed plus cisplatin in a randomized clinical trial; paronychia was reported in 11% of NSCLC receiving afatinib after progression on platinum-based chemotherapy compared with 5% of those who received erlotinib in another clinical trial (grade 3, 1% vs. 0%). Other infections reported with afatinib treatment include cystitis (13%; grade 3, 1%), conjunctivitis (11%), and serious cases of pneumonia (6.6%).


epistaxis, rhinorrhea


Epistaxis (17% vs. 2%; grade 3, 0% vs. 1%) and rhinorrhea (11% vs. 6%) were reported more often in patients treated with afatinib compared with those who received pemetrexed plus cisplatin in a randomized clinical trial.


fatigue


Serious cases of fatigue were reported in 1.7% of patients treated with afatinib in a randomized clinical trial.


infertility


Based on animal data, afatinib may cause impaired fertility or infertility in females and males of reproductive potential; it is unknown if these effects are reversible.


acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), dyspnea, interstitial lung disease, pneumonitis


Interstitial lung disease (ILD) or ILD-like reactions including pulmonary infiltrates, pneumonitis, acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), or allergic alveolitis occurred in 1.6% of patients treated with afatinib across clinical trials; 0.4% of cases were fatal. In individual clinical trials, grade 3 or higher ILD occurred in 0.9% to 1.3% of afatinib-treated patients, with 0.8% to 1% of cases resulting in death; serious cases of dyspnea were reported in 1.7% to 3.1% of patients in these trials. The incidence of ILD appeared to be higher in Asian patients compared to White patients (2.3% vs. 1%). Interrupt afatinib therapy for suspected ILD; discontinue therapy if ILD is confirmed.


fever


Fever occurred in 12% of patients treated with afatinib compared with 6% of those who received pemetrexed plus cisplatin in a randomized clinical trial.


left ventricular dysfunction


Left ventricular dysfunction defined as diastolic dysfunction, left ventricular dysfunction, or ventricular dilation occurred in 2.2% (n = 5) of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients treated with afatinib monotherapy compared with 0.9% (n = 1) of patients treated with pemetrexed/cisplatin combination therapy in a randomized clinical trial. Clinical trials of afatinib excluded patients with an abnormal left ventricular ejection fraction (i.e., below the institutional lower limit of normal). Permanently discontinue afatinib in patients who experience symptomatic left ventricular dysfunction.


elevated hepatic enzymes, hyperbilirubinemia


Liver test abnormalities including hyperbilirubinemia and transaminitis occurred in 9.7% of patients treated with afatinib across clinical trials, with 0.2% of cases resulting in death. Elevated hepatic enzymes including increased ALT (54% vs. 27%; grade 3 or 4, 2% vs. 1%) and increased AST (46% vs. 22%; grade 3, 3% vs. 1%) occurred more often in patients receiving first-line treatment for metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with afatinib compared with pemetrexed plus cisplatin in a randomized clinical trial; increases from baseline in alkaline phosphatase (51%; grade 3, 3%) and bilirubin (16%; grade 3, 1%) were also reported in afatinib-treated patients. Increases in alkaline phosphatase (34%; grade 3, 2%), ALT (10%; grade 3 or 4, 1%), AST (7%; grade 3 or 4, 1%), bilirubin (3%) were also reported in patients with metastatic NSCLC who received afatinib after progression on platinum-doublet chemotherapy. Interrupt afatinib treatment in patients who develop worsening of liver function; discontinue treatment in patients who develop severe hepatic impairment.


leukopenia, lymphopenia


Lymphopenia and leukopenia have been reported in patients treated with afatinib. A decrease from baseline in lymphocyte counts occurred in 38% of patients receiving first-line treatment with afatinib for metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) compared with 32% of those who received pemetrexed plus cisplatin in a randomized clinical trial (grade 3, 9% vs. 14%). A decrease from baseline in the white blood cell count occurred in 12% of patients receiving afatinib for NSCLC that progressed after platinum-based chemotherapy compared with 8% of those who received erlotinib in another randomized clinical trial (grade 3, 1% vs. 1%).


hypokalemia


Hypokalemia has been reported in patients treated with afatinib in clinical trials, with decreases from baseline in potassium reported in 11% to 30% of patients in 2 randomized clinical trials (grade 3, 1% to 8%).


pancreatitis


Pancreatitis has been reported in postmarketing surveillance of patients treated with afatinib.


Description

Afatinib is an oral, selective epidermal growth factor receptor-tyrosine kinase inhibitor (EGFR-TKI) indicated for the treatment of metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with nonresistant EGFR mutations and in platinum-resistant metastatic NSCLC (not selected for EGFR). Diarrhea occurs in most patients and can become severe and result in dehydration; patients should begin an antidiarrheal at the first sign of loose stools. Rash is also common and may become worse with sun exposure; advise patients to wear protective clothing and use sunscreen during treatment. Afatinib was originally approved by the FDA in July 2013.

Mechanism Of Action

Afatinib is a 4-anilinoquinazoline tyrosine kinase inhibitor that irreversibly inhibits tyrosine kinase autophosphorylation by covalently binding to the kinase domains of EGFR (ErbB1), HER2 (ErbB2), and HER4 (ErbB4) resulting in downregulation of EGFR signal transduction pathways. Ligand binding (e.g., EGF, PDGF) activates receptor tyrosine kinases, causing phosphorylation of tyrosine residue in different substrates and leading to cell proliferation, differentiation, migration, metabolism, and apoptosis. Certain EGFR mutations, including nonresistant mutations in its kinase domain, can result in increased autophosphorylation of the receptor, leading to receptor activation (sometimes in the absence of ligand binding); this can support cell proliferation in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Nonresistant mutations are those occurring in exons constituting the kinase domain of EGFR that lead to increased receptor activation, the most common of which are exon 21 L858R substitutions and exon 19 deletions. Afatinib inhibited autophosphorylation and/or in vitro proliferation of cell lines expressing wild-type EGFR and in those expressing selected EGFR exon 19 deletion mutations, exon 21 L858R mutations, or other less common nonresistant mutations, at concentrations achieved in patients; it also inhibited in vitro proliferation of cell lines overexpressing HER2.

Pharmacokinetics

Afatinib is administered orally. It is approximately 95% bound to plasma proteins. Total body clearance after 40 mg dose after a single dose and at steady-state is 952 mL/min (CV, 86.2%) and 1,070 mL/min (CV, 87.9%), respectively. The volume of distribution after a single 40-mg dose and at steady-state is 2,220 L (CV, 71.4%) and 2,870 L (CV, 101%), respectively. The elimination half-life of afatinib is approximately 37 hours, with the time to reach steady state approximately 8 days. Afatinib is minimally metabolized, mainly by non-enzyme catalyzed Michael adduct formation to proteins and nucleophilic small molecules; the major circulating metabolites are covalent adducts to proteins. Approximately 2% of an afatinib dose is metabolized by FMO3; CYP3A4-dependent N-demethylation was not detected. Afatinib is primarily excreted as unchanged drug via the feces (85%), with renal elimination accounting for 4%; only 12% of a recovered radiolabeled dose was present as metabolites.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: P-gp
CYP450 enzymatic metabolism is minimal, accounting for approximately 9% of the total metabolic turnover in sandwich-cultured human hepatocytes. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate. Concomitant administration of the P-gp inhibitor ritonavir increased afatinib exposure; coadministration with rifampicin, a P-gp inducer, decreased afatinib exposure. In vitro, afatinib is also a substrate of BCRP as well as a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route

The geometric mean bioavailability of afatinib 20-mg tablets is 92% compared to an oral solution. The Cmax and AUC of afatinib after a single 40-mg dose are 25.2 ng/mL (CV, 73.3%) and 324 ng x hour/mL (CV, 68.9%), respectively; at steady state, the Cmax and AUC are 38 ng/mL (CV, 105%) and 631 ng x hour/mL (CV, 85.9%), respectively; the time to peak plasma concentrations (Tmax) is 2 to 5 hours. The Cmax and AUC increase in a slightly more than dose-proportional manner over a range of 20 to 50 mg. Accumulation for the Cmax and AUC afatinib are 2.1-fod and 2.8-fold, respectively. When given with a high-fat meal, Cmax decreases by 50%, and AUC decreases by 39% relative to a fasting state.

Hepatic Impairment

Afatinib exposure was not affected by mild or moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class A or B) following a single dose. Afatinib has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C).

Renal Impairment

The geometric mean AUC(inf) for afatinib was 22% higher in subjects with moderate renal impairment (eGFR 30 to 59 mL/min/1.73 m2) compared to subjects with normal renal function (eGFR 90 mL/min/1.73 m2 or higher); the geometric mean Cmax in subjects with moderate renal impairment was comparable to those with normal renal function. The geometric mean AUC(inf) for afatinib was 50% higher in subjects with severe renal impairment (eGFR 15 to 29 mL/min/1.73 m2) compared to subjects with normal renal function; the geometric mean Cmax in subjects with severe renal impairment was 22% higher compared to those with normal renal function. Afatinib has not been studied in patients with eGFR less than 15 mL/min/1.73 m2 or on dialysis.

Pediatrics

The pharmacokinetic parameters of afatinib in pediatric patients (2 to 16 years) were within the range of values in adults in a single-arm, open-label, multicenter trial (n = 37); no new safety signals were observed. The dose administered to pediatric patients was 80% of the adult dose per body surface area (BSA).

Geriatric

Age does not have a clinically important effect on afatinib exposure.

Gender Differences

Gender does not have a clinically important effect on afatinib exposure.

Ethnic Differences

Race does not have a clinically important effect on afatinib exposure.

Obesity

Weight does not have a clinically important effect on afatinib exposure.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
Hazardous Drugs Classification
NIOSH 2024 List: Table 2
Observe and exercise appropriate precautions for handling, preparation, administration, and disposal of hazardous drugs.
Use gloves to handle; double chemotherapy gloves and a protective gown are needed if manipulation is necessary. Cutting, crushing, or otherwise manipulating tablets/capsules will increase exposure.
Emetic Risk
Minimal/Low
Administer prn antiemetics as necessary.
Patient Counseling
Advise patients to use sunscreen and minimize sun exposure with protective clothing during treatment.


Oral Administration


Administer at the same time each day on an empty stomach (1 hour before or 2 hours after food).
Do not administer a missed dose within 12 hours of the next dose.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

40 mg PO once daily.

Geriatric

40 mg PO once daily.

Adolescents

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Children

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

GILOTRIF 20mg Tablet

GILOTRIF 30mg Tablet

GILOTRIF 40mg Tablet

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Baseline Hepatic Impairment
Mild to moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class A or B): No dosage adjustment necessary.
Severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C): Afatinib has not been studied in these patients, however it is not extensively metabolized in the liver. Closely monitor these patients and adjust the dose if not tolerated.


Renal Impairment

Baseline Renal Impairment
Mild to moderate renal impairment (eGFR 30 mL/minute/1.73 m2 or more by Modification of Diet in Renal Disease (MDRD) formula): No dosage adjustment necessary. Closely monitor patients and adjust the afatinib dose if not tolerated.
Severe renal impairment (eGFR 15 to 29 mL/minute/1.73 m2 by MDRD formula): Reduce the dose of afatinib to 30 mg once daily.
eGFR less than 15 mL/minute/1.73 m2 by MDRD formula or dialysis: Afatinib has not been studied in this population; recommendations for dosing cannot be made.


© 2026 Elsevier