=== amLODIPine/Benazepril — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 868)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Amlodipine; benazepril is an oral combination indicated for the treatment of hypertension.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 10 mg/day PO amlodipine and 40 mg/day PO benazepril.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): cough, dizziness, edema, headache, peripheral edema, peripheral vasodilation, asthenia, drowsiness, fatigue, gynecomastia, angina, chest pain (unspecified), hypotension, myocardial infarction, palpitations, sinus tachycardia, anxiety, impotence (erectile dysfunction), insomnia, libido decrease, neuritis, tinnitus, tremor, anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, laryngeal edema, azotemia, gout, hyperbilirubinemia, hyperuricemia

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Amlodipine; benazepril is also contraindicated in individuals with a history of hypersensitivity to any angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor.

AMLODIPINE/BENAZEPRIL

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Lotrel

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of hypertension in patients who do not respond to monotherapy

Oral dosage
Adults


Amlodipine 2.5 mg/benazepril 10 mg PO once daily, initially. Antihypertensive effect may be seen within 2 weeks. Based upon clinical response, the dose may be titrated up to a maximum of amlodipine 10mg/benazepril 40 mg PO once daily. Compared to the same doses of benazepril and amlodipine monotherapy, the combined regimen is associated with less edema and greater antihypertensive effects.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Amlodipine; benazepril is also contraindicated in individuals with a history of hypersensitivity to any angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor.

Treatment-Related Restrictions of Use

Worsening angina and acute myocardial infarction can develop after starting or increasing the dose of amlodipine, particularly in individuals with severe obstructive coronary artery disease.

ACE inhibitor induced cough, Black patients, females, Hispanic patients, history of angioedema, tobacco smoking


Amlodipine; benazepril is contraindicated in individuals with a history of angioedema with or without previous angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor treatment. Individuals with a history of angioedema unrelated to ACE inhibitors may be at increased risk for angioedema while receiving an ACE inhibitor. Other risk factors for ACE inhibitor-induced angioedema may include a history of ACE inhibitor induced cough, females, tobacco smoking, and those older than 65 years. ACE inhibitors have also been associated with a higher rate of angioedema in Black patients and Hispanic patients.


hymenoptera venom (insect sting) allergy desensitization


Treatment with angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors may increase the risk of anaphylactoid reactions in individuals undergoing hymenoptera venom (insect sting) allergy desensitization. Life-threatening anaphylactoid reactions occurred in 2 individuals undergoing desensitizing treatment with hymenoptera venom while receiving ACE inhibitors. These reactions abated when ACE inhibitors were temporarily withheld, but reappeared upon rechallenge. However, a retrospective analysis of 79 subjects who underwent hymenoptera venom (insect sting) allergy desensitization did not show an association between ACE inhibitor therapy and increased frequency of systemic reactions to venom immunotherapy.


acute myocardial infarction, cerebrovascular disease, coronary artery disease, hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy, hyponatremia, hypovolemia, severe aortic stenosis, severe mitral stenosis


Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors can cause symptomatic hypotension that may be complicated by oliguria, progressive azotemia, and rarely acute renal failure, or death. Risk factors for the development of excessive hypotension include heart failure with systolic blood pressure below 100 mmHg, hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy, severe aortic stenosis, severe mitral stenosis, coronary artery disease, cerebrovascular disease, hyponatremia, high dose diuretic therapy, dialysis, or severe hypovolemia and/or salt depletion of any etiology. Avoid use of ACE inhibitors in individuals who are hemodynamically unstable after an acute myocardial infarction. Monitor individuals closely during the first 2 weeks of ACE inhibitor therapy and whenever the dose of ACE inhibitor (and/or diuretic) is increased.


autoimmune disease, collagen-vascular disease, diabetes mellitus, low-density lipoprotein apheresis, renal disease


Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors can cause hyperkalemia. Risk factors for the development of hyperkalemia include renal insufficiency, diabetes mellitus, and concomitant use of potassium-sparing diuretics, potassium supplements, and/or potassium-containing salt substitutes. Individuals whose renal function may depend on the activity of the renin-angiotensin system (e.g., individuals with renal artery stenosis, chronic renal disease, severe heart failure, post-myocardial infarction, or hypovolemia) may be at risk for developing acute renal failure on ACE inhibitor therapy. Consider withholding or discontinuing ACE inhibitor therapy in individuals who develop a clinically significant decrease in renal function while receiving an ACE inhibitor. Monitor renal function and potassium periodically in individuals receiving ACE inhibitor therapy. Amlodipine; benazepril is not recommended in individuals with severe renal impairment. Anaphylactoid reactions have been reported in individuals taking ACE inhibitors who are receiving dialysis with high-flux membranes (e.g., AN69). Consider an alternative dialysis membrane or an alternative medication in individuals with a history of reaction. Dialysis is also a risk factor for excessive hypotension with ACE inhibitor therapy. Anaphylactoid reactions have also been reported in individuals receiving ACE inhibitor therapy who are undergoing low-density lipoprotein apheresis with dextran sulfate adsorption. Additionally, ACE inhibitors may cause agranulocytosis and/or neutropenia, especially in individuals with renal failure or autoimmune disease, including collagen-vascular disease. Frequent hematologic monitoring is recommended in individuals with renal insufficiency or autoimmune disease who are receiving ACE inhibitors.


diabetes when coadministered with certain medications


Amlodipine; benazepril is contraindicated in individuals with diabetes when coadministered with certain medications, specifically aliskiren.


hepatic failure


Consider using lower doses of amlodipine; benazepril in individuals with hepatic failure. Exposure to amlodipine is increased in individuals with hepatic insufficiency.


major surgery


Benazepril may block angiotensin II formation secondary to compensatory renin release in individuals undergoing major surgery or during anesthesia with agents that produce hypotension. If hypotension occurs, correct by volume expansion.


children, infants, neonates


Do not use benazepril in neonates or infants because of the risk of adverse effects on kidney development. It is not known whether post-natal use of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors in neonates, infants, and children younger than 2 years, before maturation of kidney function is complete, has a long-term deleterious effect on the kidney. Nephrogenesis is thought to be complete around birth; however, maturation of other aspects of kidney function, such as glomerular filtration and tubular function, may continue until approximately 2 years of age.


geriatric


Consider a lower initial dose of amlodipine; benazepril in geriatric adults. Exposure to amlodipine is increased in geriatric adults.


pregnancy


Once pregnancy is detected, discontinue amlodipine; benazepril as soon as possible. Use of medications that affect the renin-angiotensin system (RAS), such as ACE inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor antagonists, are generally not recommended for use during pregnancy. Use of RAS inhibitors during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy is associated with reduced fetal renal function and increased risks of fetal and neonatal morbidity and mortality. Exposure to these agents in pregnancy may result in adverse outcomes, including fetal death, hypotension, neonatal skull hypoplasia, craniofacial abnormalities, fetal limb contractures, hypoplastic lung development, anuria, fetal growth restriction, and both reversible and irreversible renal failure. Additionally, cases of oligohydramnios and anhydramnios have been reported. Development of oligohydramnios may be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations. Use of RAS inhibitors during the first trimester of pregnancy may increase the risk of fetal harm, such as congenital malformations; however, available data are conflicting. Data with amlodipine use in pregnancy are insufficient to inform a drug-associated risk for major birth defects and miscarriage. Data from animal reproductive studies indicate no evidence of adverse developmental effects when pregnant rats and rabbits received oral amlodipine during organogenesis at doses approximately 10- and 20-times the maximum recommended human dose, respectively. Litter size for rats was decreased by about 50%, and the number of intrauterine deaths was increased by approximately 5-fold. Amlodipine has been shown to prolong the gestation period and duration of labor in rats at this dose. In rare cases when another antihypertensive agent cannot be used to treat a pregnant patient, serial ultrasound examinations should be performed to assess the intra-amniotic environment. If oligohydramnios is observed, discontinue amlodipine; benazepril unless it is considered life-saving for the pregnant individual. Oligohydramnios may not appear until after the fetus has sustained irreversible injury.


embryo-fetal toxicity, people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk


Counsel people who may become pregnant about the reproductive risk and embryo-fetal toxicity associated with medications that affect the renin-angiotensin system (RAS), such as ACE inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Use of RAS inhibitors during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy is associated with reduced fetal renal function and increased risks of fetal and neonatal morbidity and mortality.


neonates and infants exposed to this medication in utero


Closely observe neonates and infants exposed to this medication in utero for hypotension, oliguria, and hyperkalemia. If oliguria or hypotension occurs, blood pressure and renal perfusion support may be required, as well as exchange transfusion or dialysis to reverse hypotension and/or support decreased renal function.


breast-feeding


Use amlodipine; benazepril with caution in breast-feeding patients. Minimal amounts of benazepril are excreted in human milk. An exclusively breast-fed infant would receive less than 0.1% of the mg/kg maternal dose. Based on limited data, amlodipine is present in human milk, although no adverse effects of amlodipine on the breast-fed child have been observed. In a study of thirty-one lactating patients with pregnancy-induced hypertension, the median relative infant dose (RID) of amlodipine in human milk was 4.2% (interquartile range, 3.12% to 7.25%) and the maximum RID was 15.2%. No adverse effects of amlodipine on the breast-fed infant have been observed. In another study that enrolled 8 lactating patients, the average RID for amlodipine was 3.4% (range, 1.56% to 4.32%). There is no information on the effect of amlodipine or benazepril on milk production in breast-feeding women.   Due to low concentrations in human milk, guidelines consider the ACE inhibitors captopril and enalapril to be compatible with breast-feeding unless high doses are required. However, benazepril and quinapril are also excreted in low quantities into human milk and have been suggested as options during breast-feeding. The calcium channel blocker nifedipine is also compatible with breast-feeding due to low levels in breast milk.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Once pregnancy is detected, discontinue amlodipine; benazepril as soon as possible. Use of medications that affect the renin-angiotensin system (RAS), such as ACE inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor antagonists, are generally not recommended for use during pregnancy. Use of RAS inhibitors during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy is associated with reduced fetal renal function and increased risks of fetal and neonatal morbidity and mortality. Exposure to these agents in pregnancy may result in adverse outcomes, including fetal death, hypotension, neonatal skull hypoplasia, craniofacial abnormalities, fetal limb contractures, hypoplastic lung development, anuria, fetal growth restriction, and both reversible and irreversible renal failure. Additionally, cases of oligohydramnios and anhydramnios have been reported. Development of oligohydramnios may be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations. Use of RAS inhibitors during the first trimester of pregnancy may increase the risk of fetal harm, such as congenital malformations; however, available data are conflicting. Data with amlodipine use in pregnancy are insufficient to inform a drug-associated risk for major birth defects and miscarriage. Data from animal reproductive studies indicate no evidence of adverse developmental effects when pregnant rats and rabbits received oral amlodipine during organogenesis at doses approximately 10- and 20-times the maximum recommended human dose, respectively. Litter size for rats was decreased by about 50%, and the number of intrauterine deaths was increased by approximately 5-fold. Amlodipine has been shown to prolong the gestation period and duration of labor in rats at this dose. In rare cases when another antihypertensive agent cannot be used to treat a pregnant patient, serial ultrasound examinations should be performed to assess the intra-amniotic environment. If oligohydramnios is observed, discontinue amlodipine; benazepril unless it is considered life-saving for the pregnant individual. Oligohydramnios may not appear until after the fetus has sustained irreversible injury.


Interactions

Acarbose: (Moderate) ACE inhibitors may enhance the hypoglycemic effects of insulin or other antidiabetic agents by improving insulin sensitivity. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents can become hypoglycemic if ACE inhibitors are administered concomitantly. Patients receiving these drugs concomitantly with antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in glycemic control.
Acebutolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of dihydrocodeine with amlodipine may increase dihydrocodeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased dihydromorphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of dihydrocodeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of amlodipine could decrease dihydrocodeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to dihydrocodeine. If amlodipine is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Amlodipine is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4, an isoenzyme partially responsible for the metabolism of dihydrocodeine.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving phenylephrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving phenylephrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in codeine-related adverse reactions including sedation and respiratory depression if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary; adjust the dose of codeine if necessary. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6 and increased morphine concentrations.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving phenylephrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving phenylephrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Acetaminophen; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving phenylephrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like amlodipine can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If amlodipine is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Acetaminophen; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of ACE inhibitors and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. If amlodipine is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with a weak inhibitor like amlodipine can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If amlodipine is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Acetaminophen; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving phenylephrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Adagrasib: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with adagrasib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
Adenosine: (Moderate) Use adenosine with caution in the presence of calcium-channel blockers due to the potential for additive or synergistic depressant effects on the sinoatrial and atrioventricular nodes.
Alemtuzumab: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of alfentanil with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. If amlodipine is discontinued, consider increasing the alfentanil dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Alfentanil is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with weak CYP3A4 inhibitors like amlodipine can increase alfentanil exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of alfentanil. If amlodipine is discontinued, alfentanil plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to alfentanil.
Aliskiren: (Major) Aliskiren-containing products are contraindicated in combination with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) in patients with diabetes mellitus. In general, avoid combined use of two renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) inhibitors, particularly in patients with CrCl less than 60 mL/minute. Combination therapy increases the risk for hyperkalemia, renal impairment, and other side effects. Most patients receiving a comination of two RAAS inhibitors, such as ACE inhibitors and aliskiren do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes if aliskiren must be combined with another RAAS inhibitor. In the ALTITUDE trial, patients with type 2 diabetes and renal impairment, a population at high risk for cardiovascular and renal events, were given aliskiren in addition to ACE inhibitors or ARBs. The trial was stopped early because aliskiren was associated with an increased risk of non-fatal stroke, renal complications, hyperkalemia, and hypotension. In the Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial, no additional benefit over monotherapy was seen in patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril compared to monotherapy; however, there was an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute renal injury.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Aliskiren-containing products are contraindicated in combination with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) in patients with diabetes mellitus. In general, avoid combined use of two renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) inhibitors, particularly in patients with CrCl less than 60 mL/minute. Combination therapy increases the risk for hyperkalemia, renal impairment, and other side effects. Most patients receiving a comination of two RAAS inhibitors, such as ACE inhibitors and aliskiren do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes if aliskiren must be combined with another RAAS inhibitor. In the ALTITUDE trial, patients with type 2 diabetes and renal impairment, a population at high risk for cardiovascular and renal events, were given aliskiren in addition to ACE inhibitors or ARBs. The trial was stopped early because aliskiren was associated with an increased risk of non-fatal stroke, renal complications, hyperkalemia, and hypotension. In the Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial, no additional benefit over monotherapy was seen in patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril compared to monotherapy; however, there was an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute renal injury. (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting benazepril, if possible, or start benazepril at the lower dose of 5 mg/day. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure.
Allergen Immunotherapy (selected): (Moderate) Advise patients who are undergoing allergy testing or receiving maintenance allergen immunotherapy (AIT) that allergic reactions, including symptoms of anaphylaxis, may be more severe while receiving angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI) therapy. Risk varies by individual based on indication for therapy and history. This risk is generally considered minimal for most patients who are receiving maintenance AIT and the benefits of continuing ACEI therapy typically outweigh the risks in patients with cardiovascular disease.
Alogliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Alogliptin; Pioglitazone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant thiazolidinedione and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Alpha-glucosidase Inhibitors: (Moderate) ACE inhibitors may enhance the hypoglycemic effects of insulin or other antidiabetic agents by improving insulin sensitivity. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents can become hypoglycemic if ACE inhibitors are administered concomitantly. Patients receiving these drugs concomitantly with antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in glycemic control.
ALPRAZolam: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and amlodipine due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with amlodipine, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A4 inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Alprostadil: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, like calcium channel blockers, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil. (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors), may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Amifostine: (Major) Patients receiving angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors should be closely monitored during amifostine infusions due to additive effects. Patients receiving amifostine at doses recommended for chemotherapy should have antihypertensive therapy interrupted 24 hours preceding administration of amifostine. If the antihypertensive cannot be stopped, patients should not receive amifostine. (Major) Patients receiving calcium-channel blockers should be closely monitored during amifostine infusions due to additive effects. Patients receiving amifostine at doses recommended for chemotherapy should have antihypertensive therapy interrupted 24 hours preceding administration of amifostine. If the antihypertensive cannot be stopped for 24 hours before chemotherapy doses of amifostine, patients should not receive amifostine.
aMILoride: (Major) Amiloride should be used very cautiously with agents that have potential to induce hyperkalemia; serum potassium levels monitored when such agents are coadministered with amiloride. Simultaneous use of a potassium-sparing diuretic (e.g., amiloride) with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) can increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment (renal disease, elderly patients). These agents should be used with caution and serum potassium levels monitored when the substances are coadministered. The Beers Criteria recommends avoiding routine use of this combination in older adults; reserve this combination for patients with demonstrated hypokalemia while taking an ACE inhibitor.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Amiloride should be used very cautiously with agents that have potential to induce hyperkalemia; serum potassium levels monitored when such agents are coadministered with amiloride. Simultaneous use of a potassium-sparing diuretic (e.g., amiloride) with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) can increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment (renal disease, elderly patients). These agents should be used with caution and serum potassium levels monitored when the substances are coadministered. The Beers Criteria recommends avoiding routine use of this combination in older adults; reserve this combination for patients with demonstrated hypokalemia while taking an ACE inhibitor. (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting benazepril, if possible, or start benazepril at the lower dose of 5 mg/day. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure.
Aminolevulinic Acid: (Minor) Preclinical data suggest that calcium-channel blockers could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
Aminosalicylate sodium, Aminosalicylic acid: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of ACE inhibitors and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting benazepril, if possible, or start benazepril at the lower dose of 5 mg/day. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure. (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
Amobarbital: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely. (Moderate) Concurrent use of amobarbital with antihypertensive agents may lead to hypotension. Monitor for decreases in blood pressure during times of coadministration.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin and amlodipine, particularly in geriatric patients, due to an increased risk of hypotension and acute kidney injury. If the use of a macrolide antibiotic is necessary in a patient receiving amlodipine therapy, azithromycin is the preferred agent. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. A retrospective, case crossover study, found the risk of hospitalization due to hypotension or shock to be significantly increased in geriatric patients exposed to clarithromycin during concurrent calcium-channel blocker therapy (OR 3.7, 95% CI 2.3-6.1). Concurrent use of azithromycin was not associated with an increased risk of hypotension (OR 1.5, 95% CI 0.8-2.8).
Amphetamine: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine Salts: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Angiotensin II receptor antagonists: (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
Angiotensin II: (Moderate) Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) may increase the response to angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a naturally occurring peptide hormone of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) that causes vasoconstriction and an increase in blood pressure. ACE inhibitors reduce the breakdown of angiotensin II.
Apalutamide: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with apalutamide is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Apomorphine: (Moderate) Use of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination. (Moderate) Use of calcium-channel blockers and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Apraclonidine: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically. (Minor) Apraclonidine had minimal effects on heart rate and blood pressure during clinical studies in patients with glaucoma. However, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Use caution during concurrent use, especially in patients with severe, uncontrolled cardiovascular disease, including hypertension.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Moderate) Use caution if amlodipine and a multi-day regimen of oral aprepitant are used concurrently; monitor for an increase in amlodipine-related adverse effects for several days after administration. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate. Aprepitant, when administered as a 3-day oral regimen (125 mg/80 mg/80 mg), is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and inducer and may increase plasma concentrations of amlodipine. For example, a 5-day oral aprepitant regimen increased the AUC of another CYP3A4 substrate, midazolam (single dose), by 2.3-fold on day 1 and by 3.3-fold on day 5. After a 3-day oral aprepitant regimen, the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1, 4, 8, and 15) increased by 25% on day 4, and then decreased by 19% and 4% on days 8 and 15, respectively. As a single 125 mg or 40 mg oral dose, the inhibitory effect of aprepitant on CYP3A4 is weak, with the AUC of midazolam increased by 1.5-fold and 1.2-fold, respectively. After administration, fosaprepitant is rapidly converted to aprepitant and shares many of the same drug interactions. However, as a single 150 mg intravenous dose, fosaprepitant only weakly inhibits CYP3A4 for a duration of 2 days; there is no evidence of CYP3A4 induction. Fosaprepitant 150 mg IV as a single dose increased the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1 and 4) by approximately 1.8-fold on day 1; there was no effect on day 4. Less than a 2-fold increase in the midazolam AUC is not considered clinically important.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions and hypotension during concomitant use of amlodipine. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus amlodipine may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Additionally, aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents such as amlodipine. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Armodafinil: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as armodafinil are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine. (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including calcium-channel blockers, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
Asenapine: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Aspirin, ASA: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely. (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in codeine-related adverse reactions including sedation and respiratory depression if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary; adjust the dose of codeine if necessary. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6 and increased morphine concentrations.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Aspirin, ASA; Dipyridamole: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation. (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. If amlodipine is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with a weak inhibitor like amlodipine can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If amlodipine is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Atazanavir: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with protease inhibitors is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with cobicistat is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor and amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent. (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with protease inhibitors is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Atenolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting benazepril, if possible, or start benazepril at the lower dose of 5 mg/day. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure. (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Atracurium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium-channel blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Auranofin: (Minor) Nitritoid reactions (facial flushing, diaphoresis, dizziness, nausea/vomiting, hypotension, tachycardia, syncope, and anaphylactic type reactions) or vasomotor reactions have been reported rarely in patients receiving injectable gold and concomitant ACE inhibitor therapy. Monitor closely for nitritoid reactions during co-therapy with gold and ACE inhibitor agents.
Avacopan: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with avacopan is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Avanafil: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure closely during concomitant use of avanafil and amlodipine as coadministration may increase the risk of additive hypotension. Avanafil is a substrate of CYP3A and amlodipine is a CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with amlodipine increased the AUC of avanafil by approximately 70% and the half-life was prolonged to approximately 10 hours. A mean maximum decrease in supine systolic blood pressure of 1.2 mmHg (compared to placebo), accompanied by a mean maximum increase in pulse rate of 1 beat per minute was observed.
azaTHIOprine: (Major) The use of ACE inhibitors in hypertensive patients receiving azathioprine has been reported to induce anemia and severe leukopenia. This combination should be avoided where possible. When concurrent azathioprine and ACE inhibitor therapy is necessary, the patient should be monitored cautiously for potential myelosuppression.
Azilsartan: (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting benazepril, if possible, or start benazepril at the lower dose of 5 mg/day. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure. (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
Baclofen: (Moderate) Baclofen has been associated with hypotension. Concurrent use with baclofen and antihypertensive agents may result in additive hypotension. Dosage adjustments of the antihypertensive medication may be required.
Barbiturates: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely.
Baxdrostat: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations if an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI) and baxdrostat are used together. Both medications increase serum potassium concentrations and concomitant use may increase the risk for hyperkalemia.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting benazepril, if possible, or start benazepril at the lower dose of 5 mg/day. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Concurrent use of benzhydrocodone with amlodipine may increase the risk of increased opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Consider a dose reduction of benzhydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patients for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. Discontinuation of amlodipine in a patient taking benzhydrocodone may decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to opioid agonists. If amlodipine is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Benzhydrocodone is a prodrug for hydrocodone. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP3A4. Amlodipine is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Benzphetamine: (Minor) Benzphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Benzphetamine might increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Berotralstat: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with berotralstat is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and berotralstat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Beta-blockers: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Betaxolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Bexagliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Bexarotene: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as bexarotene, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with lenacapavir is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Bismuth Subsalicylate: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Bisoprolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting benazepril, if possible, or start benazepril at the lower dose of 5 mg/day. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure. (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Bortezomib: (Moderate) Patients on antihypertensive agents receiving bortezomib treatment may require close monitoring of their blood pressure and dosage adjustment of their medication. During clinical trials of bortezomib, hypotension was reported in roughly 12 percent of patients.
Bosentan: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with bosentan is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and bosentan is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Brexpiprazole: (Moderate) Due to brexpiprazole's antagonism at alpha 1-adrenergic receptors, the drug may enhance the hypotensive effects of alpha-blockers and other antihypertensive agents.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving phenylephrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving phenylephrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Bumetanide: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function during concomitant use of an ACE-inhibitor and loop diuretic. Concomitant use may increase the risk for symptomatic hypotension and renal injury; a dosage reduction of either medication may be required based on response. When initiating an ACE-inhibitor in a patient receiving a loop diuretic, start with the lowest recommended dose and titrate slowly based on response. For patients with additional risk factors for symptomatic hypotension, consider additional risk mitigation actions during therapy initiation, such an empiric dosage reduction or temporary interruption of loop diuretic therapy.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine. (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including calcium-channel blockers, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of ACE inhibitors and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in codeine-related adverse reactions including sedation and respiratory depression if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary; adjust the dose of codeine if necessary. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6 and increased morphine concentrations.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely. (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in codeine-related adverse reactions including sedation and respiratory depression if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary; adjust the dose of codeine if necessary. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6 and increased morphine concentrations.
Cabergoline: (Moderate) Cabergoline should be used cautiously with antihypertensive agents, including amlodipine. Cabergoline has been associated with hypotension. Initial doses higher than 1 mg may produce orthostatic hypotension. It may be advisable to monitor blood pressure. (Moderate) Cabergoline should be used cautiously with antihypertensive agents, including angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Cabergoline has been associated with hypotension. Initial doses of cabergoline higher than 1 mg may produce orthostatic hypotension. It may be advisable to monitor blood pressure.
Calcium Acetate: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Calcium Carbonate: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Calcium Carbonate; Famotidine; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Calcium Carbonate; Simethicone: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Calcium Chloride: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Calcium Gluconate: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Calcium Phosphate, Supersaturated: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Calcium: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Calcium; Vitamin D: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Calcium; Vitamin D: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Canagliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Canagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Candesartan: (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting benazepril, if possible, or start benazepril at the lower dose of 5 mg/day. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure. (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting benazepril, if possible, or start benazepril at the lower dose of 5 mg/day. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure.
carBAMazepine: (Moderate) Monitor carbamazepine concentrations and blood pressure closely during coadministration of amlodipine; carbamazepine dose adjustments may be needed. Concomitant use may increase carbamazepine concentrations. Carbamazepine is a CYP3A substrate and strong inducer and amlodipine is CYP3A substrate and inhibitor. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Carbidopa; Levodopa: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Carbidopa; Levodopa; Entacapone: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Cariprazine: (Moderate) Orthostatic vital signs should be monitored in patients who are at risk for hypotension, such as those receiving cariprazine in combination with antihypertensive agents. Atypical antipsychotics may cause orthostatic hypotension and syncope, most commonly during treatment initiation and dosage increases. Patients should be informed about measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning, or rising slowly from a seated position. Consider a cariprazine dose reduction if hypotension occurs.
Carteolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Celecoxib: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of ACE inhibitors and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of amlodipine, a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist. (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of ACE inhibitors and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Cenobamate: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with cenobamate is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and cenobamate is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Ceritinib: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ceritinib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Ceritinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor and amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Chloramphenicol: (Moderate) Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate. Theoretically, CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as chloramphenicol, may increase the plasma concentration of amlodipine via CYP3A4 inhibition; this effect might lead to hypotension in some individuals. Caution should be used when chloramphenicol is coadministered with amlodipine; therapeutic response should be monitored.
Chloroprocaine: (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents.
Chlorothiazide: (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting benazepril, if possible, or start benazepril at the lower dose of 5 mg/day. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in codeine-related adverse reactions including sedation and respiratory depression if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary; adjust the dose of codeine if necessary. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6 and increased morphine concentrations.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving phenylephrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like amlodipine can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If amlodipine is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of ACE inhibitors and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving phenylephrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Chlorthalidone: (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting benazepril, if possible, or start benazepril at the lower dose of 5 mg/day. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure.
Choline Salicylate; Magnesium Salicylate: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Chromium: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Ciprofloxacin: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ciprofloxacin is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and ciprofloxacin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Cisapride: (Moderate) Use caution when administering amlodipine with cisapride. Taking these drugs together may increase cisapride plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in adverse events. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; cisapride is a substrate of CYP3A4 with a narrow therapeutic index.
Cisatracurium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium-channel blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Citric Acid; Potassium Citrate; Sodium Citrate: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin and amlodipine, particularly in geriatric patients, due to an increased risk of hypotension and acute kidney injury. If the use of a macrolide antibiotic is necessary in a patient receiving amlodipine therapy, azithromycin is the preferred agent. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. A retrospective, case crossover study, found the risk of hospitalization due to hypotension or shock to be significantly increased in geriatric patients exposed to clarithromycin during concurrent calcium-channel blocker therapy (OR 3.7, 95% CI 2.3-6.1). Concurrent use of azithromycin was not associated with an increased risk of hypotension (OR 1.5, 95% CI 0.8-2.8).
cloBAZam: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as clobazam, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Clopidogrel: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced therapeutic response to clopidogrel when it is coadministered with amlodipine. Although clopidogrel is primarily converted to its active metabolite via CYP2C19, it has been suggested that calcium channel blocker (CCB)-induced inhibition of CYP3A4 reduces its conversion to the active metabolite, thereby reducing its antiplatelet effect. Because amlodipine has represented the largest subgroup of CCB studied, it is unknown whether this is a class effect. It has been theorized that CCBs that inhibit P-glycoprotein (P-gp) decrease the intestinal efflux of clopidogrel, thereby increasing its plasma concentrations and counteracting the effect of CCB-induced CYP3A4 inhibition. Amlodipine is not a P-gp inhibitor.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Clozapine used concomitantly with the antihypertensive agents can increase the risk and severity of hypotension by potentiating the effect of the antihypertensive drug. (Moderate) Lisinopril may decrease the renal elimination of clozapine and metabolites. Clozapine toxicity, including irritability, anger, insomnia, nightmares and sialorrhea may occur. The mechanism of this interaction is unclear; however, as lisinopril does not undergo metabolism, cytochrome P450 enzyme involvement is unlikely. It is speculated that a decrease in renal elimination of clozapine occurs due to a lisinopril-induced reduction in glomerular filtration rate (GFR). Plasma clozapine concentrations should be measured carefully during concomitant lisinopril therapy; another antihypertensive class may need to be selected. In addition, clozapine used concomitantly with the antihypertensive agents can increase the risk and severity of hypotension by potentiating the effect of the antihypertensive drug.
Cobicistat: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with cobicistat is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor and amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
Cocaine: (Major) Use of cocaine with antihypertensive agents may increase the antihypertensive effects of the antihypertensive medications or may potentiate cocaine-induced sympathetic stimulation. (Major) Use of cocaine with antihypertensive agents may increase the antihypertensive effects of the antihypertensive medications or may potentiate cocaine-induced sympathetic stimulation.
Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in codeine-related adverse reactions including sedation and respiratory depression if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary; adjust the dose of codeine if necessary. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6 and increased morphine concentrations.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in codeine-related adverse reactions including sedation and respiratory depression if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary; adjust the dose of codeine if necessary. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6 and increased morphine concentrations.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in codeine-related adverse reactions including sedation and respiratory depression if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary; adjust the dose of codeine if necessary. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6 and increased morphine concentrations.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in codeine-related adverse reactions including sedation and respiratory depression if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary; adjust the dose of codeine if necessary. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6 and increased morphine concentrations. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in codeine-related adverse reactions including sedation and respiratory depression if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary; adjust the dose of codeine if necessary. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6 and increased morphine concentrations. (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving phenylephrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in codeine-related adverse reactions including sedation and respiratory depression if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary; adjust the dose of codeine if necessary. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6 and increased morphine concentrations.
Co-Enzyme Q10, Ubiquinone: (Moderate) Co-enzyme Q10, ubiquinone (CoQ10) may lower blood pressure. CoQ10 use in combination with antihypertensive agents may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients who choose to take CoQ10 concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring. Patients should be advised to inform their prescriber of their use of CoQ10.
Conivaptan: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with conivaptan is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; conivaptan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of amlodipine and oral conivaptan doubled amlodipine's overall exposure in a drug interaction study.
Crizotinib: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with crizotinib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Crizotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor and amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
cycloPHOSphamide: (Moderate) Closely monitor complete blood counts if coadministration of cyclophosphamide with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) is necessary as there is an increased risk of hematologic toxicity (specifically leukopenia) and immunosuppression.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Caution should be used when cyclosporine is coadministered with amlodipine; therapeutic response should be monitored, including cyclosporine levels as necessary. Amlodipine may increase cyclosporine concentrations. In one study, whole blood cyclosporine trough concentrations increased from 140.2 +/- 18.2 to 200 +/- 21.9 mcg/L after amlodipine addition. In another study, the systemic exposure (AUC) of cyclosporine increased following the addition of amlodipine, and was decreased in the absence of the drug. The postulated mechanism is the inhibitory effect of amlodipine on the P-glycoprotein-mediated efflux of cyclosporine from intestinal epithelial cells. In addition, amlodipine is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4; cyclosporine is a substrate with a narrow therapeutic index. Also, amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and theoretically, cyclosporine, may increase the plasma concentration of amlodipine via CYP3A4 inhibition; this effect might lead to hypotension in some individuals. (Moderate) Several cases of acute renal failure have been associated with the addition of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors to cyclosporine therapy in renal transplant patients. In response to cyclosporine-induced renal afferent vasoconstriction and glomerular hypoperfusion, angiotensin II is required to maintain an adequate glomerular filtration rate. Inhibition of ACE could reduce renal function acutely. Also, cyclosporine can cause hyperkalemia, and inhibition of angiotensin II leads to reduced aldosterone concentrations, which can increase the serum potassium concentration. Closely monitor renal function and serum potassium concentrations in patients receiving cyclosporine concurrently with ACE inhibitors or potassium salts.
Dabrafenib: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as dabrafenib, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Dantrolene: (Moderate) Concurrent use with skeletal muscle relaxants and antihypertensive agents may result in additive hypotension. Dosage adjustments of the antihypertensive medication may be required.
Dapagliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Dapagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Dapagliflozin; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Darunavir: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with protease inhibitors is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with cobicistat is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor and amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent. (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with protease inhibitors is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with cobicistat is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor and amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent. (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with protease inhibitors is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Deferasirox: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as deferasirox, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Desloratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving phenylephrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of dexmedetomidine and calcium-channel blockers could lead to additive hypotension and bradycardia; use together with caution. Dexmedetomidine can produce bradycardia or AV block and should be used cautiously in patients who are receiving antihypertensive drugs that may lower the heart rate such as calcium-channel blockers.
Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents, including calcium-channel blockers.
Dextroamphetamine: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving phenylephrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving phenylephrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased quinidine adverse reactions if coadministered with amlodipine. Taking these drugs together may increase quinidine plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in adverse events. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; quinidine is a substrate of CYP3A4 with a narrow therapeutic index. In addition, quinidine can decrease blood pressure and should be used cautiously in patients receiving antihypertensive agents due to the potential for additive hypotension. (Moderate) Quinidine can decrease blood pressure and should be used cautiously in patients receiving antihypertensive agents due to the potential for additive hypotension.
Diclofenac: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of ACE inhibitors and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of ACE inhibitors and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Diethylpropion: (Major) Diethylpropion has vasopressor effects and may limit the benefit of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Although leading drug interaction texts differ in the potential for an interaction between diethylpropion and this group of antihypertensive agents, these effects are likely to be clinically significant and have been described in hypertensive patients on these medications. (Major) Diethylpropion has vasopressor effects and may limit the benefit of calcium-channel blockers. Although leading drug interaction texts differ in the potential for an interaction between diethylpropion and this group of antihypertensive agents, these effects are likely to be clinically significant and have been described in hypertensive patients on these medications.
Diflunisal: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of ACE inhibitors and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Digoxin: (Moderate) Coadministration of digoxin and captopril increases the serum concentration and AUC of digoxin by 58% and 39%, respectively. However, captopril and digoxin are administered together in patients with congestive heart failure. Measure serum digoxin concentrations before initiating captopril. Reduce digoxin concentrations by decreasing the digoxin dose by approximately 30-50% or by modifying the dosing frequency and continue monitoring. In addition, caution should be exercised when administering digoxin with drugs that may cause a significant deterioration in renal function including angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). A decline in glomerular filtration or tubular secretion may impair the excretion of digoxin. Close monitoring of serum digoxin concentrations is essential to avoid enhanced toxicity.
dilTIAZem: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with diltiazem is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and diltiazem is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with diltiazem in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of ACE inhibitors and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of ACE inhibitors and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving phenylephrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Dofetilide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A4 substrate; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of dronabinol with amlodipine is necessary, and monitor for an increase in dronabinol-related adverse reactions (e.g., feeling high, dizziness, confusion, somnolence). Dronabinol is a CYP2C9 and 3A4 substrate; amlodipine is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4. Concomitant use may result in elevated plasma concentrations of dronabinol.
Dronedarone: (Moderate) Monitor for evidence of hypotension and edema if amlodipine is coadministered with dronedarone; an amlodipine dose adjustment may be necessary due to increased amlodipine exposure. Dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Drospirenone: (Moderate) Drospirenone has antimineralocorticoid effects and may increase serum potassium. The concurrent use of ACE inhibitors may increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment. Monitor serum potassium during the 1st month of drospirenone treatment if an Angiotensin-Converting Enzyme inhibitor (ACE inhibitor) is used concurrently and thereafter as clinically indicated. Also monitor for any changes in blood pressure, fluid retention, or renal function.
Drospirenone; Estetrol: (Moderate) Drospirenone has antimineralocorticoid effects and may increase serum potassium. The concurrent use of ACE inhibitors may increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment. Monitor serum potassium during the 1st month of drospirenone treatment if an Angiotensin-Converting Enzyme inhibitor (ACE inhibitor) is used concurrently and thereafter as clinically indicated. Also monitor for any changes in blood pressure, fluid retention, or renal function.
Drospirenone; Estradiol: (Moderate) Drospirenone has antimineralocorticoid effects and may increase serum potassium. The concurrent use of ACE inhibitors may increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment. Monitor serum potassium during the 1st month of drospirenone treatment if an Angiotensin-Converting Enzyme inhibitor (ACE inhibitor) is used concurrently and thereafter as clinically indicated. Also monitor for any changes in blood pressure, fluid retention, or renal function.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Drospirenone has antimineralocorticoid effects and may increase serum potassium. The concurrent use of ACE inhibitors may increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment. Monitor serum potassium during the 1st month of drospirenone treatment if an Angiotensin-Converting Enzyme inhibitor (ACE inhibitor) is used concurrently and thereafter as clinically indicated. Also monitor for any changes in blood pressure, fluid retention, or renal function. (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Moderate) Drospirenone has antimineralocorticoid effects and may increase serum potassium. The concurrent use of ACE inhibitors may increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment. Monitor serum potassium during the 1st month of drospirenone treatment if an Angiotensin-Converting Enzyme inhibitor (ACE inhibitor) is used concurrently and thereafter as clinically indicated. Also monitor for any changes in blood pressure, fluid retention, or renal function. (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Dulaglutide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension and syncope have been reported during duloxetine administration. The concurrent administration of antihypertensive agents and duloxetine may increase the risk of hypotension. Monitor blood pressure if the combination is necessary.
Dutasteride; Tamsulosin: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of tamsulosin with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. In addition, diltiazem, nicardipine, and verapamil may increase tamsulosin plasma concentrations via CYP3A4 inhibition. This interaction can be therapeutically advantageous, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
Duvelisib: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with duvelisib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and duvelisib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Efavirenz: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure if amlodipine and efavirenz are used concomitantly. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate; efavirenz induces CYP3A4. In addition, monitor for an increase in efavirenz-related adverse reactions if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary. Efavirenz is a CYP3A4 substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; concomitant use may increase plasma concentrations of efavirenz.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure if amlodipine and efavirenz are used concomitantly. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate; efavirenz induces CYP3A4. In addition, monitor for an increase in efavirenz-related adverse reactions if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary. Efavirenz is a CYP3A4 substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; concomitant use may increase plasma concentrations of efavirenz.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure if amlodipine and efavirenz are used concomitantly. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate; efavirenz induces CYP3A4. In addition, monitor for an increase in efavirenz-related adverse reactions if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary. Efavirenz is a CYP3A4 substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; concomitant use may increase plasma concentrations of efavirenz.
Elagolix: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with elagolix is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and elagolix is a weak to moderate CYP3A4 inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with elagolix is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and elagolix is a weak to moderate CYP3A4 inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Elbasvir; Grazoprevir: (Moderate) Administering elbasvir; grazoprevir with amlodipine may cause the plasma concentrations of all three drugs to increase; thereby increasing the potential for adverse effects (i.e., elevated ALT concentrations and hepatotoxicity). Amlodipine is a substrate and weak inhibitor of CYP3A. Both elbasvir and grazoprevir are metabolized by CYP3A, and grazoprevir is also a weak CYP3A inhibitor. If these drugs are used together, closely monitor for signs of hepatotoxicity.
Eliglustat: (Major) In poor CYP2D6 metabolizers (PMs), coadministration of amlodipine and eliglustat is not recommended. In extensive CYP2D6 metabolizers (EM) with mild hepatic impairment, coadministration of these agents requires dosage reduction of eliglustat to 84 mg PO once daily. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor; eliglustat is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate. Because CYP3A plays a significant role in the metabolism of eliglustat in CYP2D6 PMs, coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors may increase eliglustat exposure and the risk of serious adverse events (e.g., QT prolongation and cardiac arrhythmias) in these patients.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with cobicistat is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor and amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with cobicistat is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor and amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
Empagliflozin: (Moderate) Administer antidiabetic agents with caution in patients receiving calcium-channel blockers. These drugs may cause hyperglycemia leading to a temporary loss of glycemic control in patients receiving antidiabetic agents. Close observation and monitoring of blood glucose is necessary to maintain adequate glycemic control. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin: (Moderate) Administer antidiabetic agents with caution in patients receiving calcium-channel blockers. These drugs may cause hyperglycemia leading to a temporary loss of glycemic control in patients receiving antidiabetic agents. Close observation and monitoring of blood glucose is necessary to maintain adequate glycemic control. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Administer antidiabetic agents with caution in patients receiving calcium-channel blockers. These drugs may cause hyperglycemia leading to a temporary loss of glycemic control in patients receiving antidiabetic agents. Close observation and monitoring of blood glucose is necessary to maintain adequate glycemic control. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Empagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Administer antidiabetic agents with caution in patients receiving calcium-channel blockers. These drugs may cause hyperglycemia leading to a temporary loss of glycemic control in patients receiving antidiabetic agents. Close observation and monitoring of blood glucose is necessary to maintain adequate glycemic control. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting benazepril, if possible, or start benazepril at the lower dose of 5 mg/day. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure.
Encorafenib: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with encorafenib is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Ensitrelvir: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ensitrelvir is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
Entecavir: (Moderate) Because entecavir is primarily eliminated by the kidneys and ACE inhibitors can affect renal function, concurrent administration with ACE inhibitors may increase the serum concentrations of entecavir and adverse events. Monitor for adverse effects when these drugs are coadministered.
Enzalutamide: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with enzalutamide is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
ePHEDrine: (Major) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics, such as ephedrine, may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Blood pressure and heart rates should be monitored closely to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. (Major) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics, such as ephedrine, may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Blood pressure and heart rates should be monitored closely to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
ePHEDrine; guaiFENesin: (Major) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics, such as ephedrine, may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Blood pressure and heart rates should be monitored closely to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. (Major) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics, such as ephedrine, may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Blood pressure and heart rates should be monitored closely to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine. (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including calcium-channel blockers, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
epiRUBicin: (Moderate) Close cardiac monitoring is recommended throughout therapy in patients receiving concomitant therapy with epirubicin and calcium-channel blockers. Individuals receiving these medications together are at increased risk of developing heart failure.
Eplerenone: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors. Hyperkalemia risk is increased when eplerenone is used with ACE inhibitors. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations. (Moderate) Amlodipine can have additive hypotensive effects with other antihypertensive agents. This additive effect can be desirable, but the patient should be monitored carefully and the dosage should be adjusted based on clinical response.
Epoprostenol: (Moderate) Calcium-channel blockers can have additive hypotensive effects with other antihypertensive agents. This additive effect can be desirable, but the patient should be monitored carefully and the dosage should be adjusted based on clinical response.
Ertugliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Ertugliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Ertugliflozin; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Erythromycin: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with erythromycin is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and erythromycin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Eslicarbazepine: (Minor) In vivo studies suggest eslicarbazepine is an inducer of CYP3A4. Coadministration of CYP3A4 substrates, such as amlodipine, may result in decreased serum concentrations of the substrates. Monitor for potential reduced cholesterol-lowering and hypotensive efficacy when these drugs are coadministered with eslicarbazepine. Appropriate dose adjustments may be necessary.
Esmolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients; patients who are receiving antihypertensive agents concurrently with hormonal contraceptives should be monitored for antihypertensive effectiveness.
Ethacrynic Acid: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function during concomitant use of an ACE-inhibitor and loop diuretic. Concomitant use may increase the risk for symptomatic hypotension and renal injury; a dosage reduction of either medication may be required based on response. When initiating an ACE-inhibitor in a patient receiving a loop diuretic, start with the lowest recommended dose and titrate slowly based on response. For patients with additional risk factors for symptomatic hypotension, consider additional risk mitigation actions during therapy initiation, such an empiric dosage reduction or temporary interruption of loop diuretic therapy.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Ethiodized Oil: (Moderate) Because the use of other nephrotoxic drugs, including ACE inhibitors, is an additive risk factor for nephrotoxicity in patients receiving radiopaque contrast agents, ACE inhibitor therapy should be withheld, when possible, during radiopaque contrast agent administration.
Ethosuximide: (Moderate) Monitor for increased ethosuximide adverse reactions if coadministered with amlodipine. Taking these drugs together may increase ethosuximide plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in adverse events. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; ethosuximide is a substrate of CYP3A4 with a narrow therapeutic index.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Etodolac: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of ACE inhibitors and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Etomidate: (Major) The depression of cardiac contractility, conductivity, and automaticity as well as the vascular dilation associated with general anesthetics may be potentiated by calcium-channel blockers. Alternatively, general anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. When used concomitantly, anesthetics and calcium-channel blockers should be titrated carefully to avoid excessive cardiovascular depression. (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Etravirine: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as etravirine, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Everolimus: (Major) Avoid coadministration of everolimus with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) as the risk of angioedema, with or without respiratory impairment, may be increased. In a pooled analysis of randomized, double-blind oncology clinical trials, angioedema was reported in 6.8% of patients receiving concomitant everolimus and ACE inhibitor therapy, compared to 1.3% of patients with an ACE inhibitor alone.
Exenatide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Ezetimibe; Simvastatin: (Major) Do not exceed a simvastatin dose of 20 mg/day in patients taking amlodipine due to increased risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis. For patients chronically receiving simvastatin 80 mg/day who need to be started on amlodipine, consider switching to an alternative statin with less potential for interaction. Carefully weigh the benefits of combined use of amlodipine and simvastatin against the potential risks. Amlodipine increases the simvastatin exposure by approximately 1.5-fold.
Fedratinib: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with fedratinib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Fedratinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor and amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Fenoprofen: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of ACE inhibitors and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of fentanyl with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. If amlodipine is discontinued, consider increasing the fentanyl dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Fentanyl is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like amlodipine can increase fentanyl exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of fentanyl. If amlodipine is discontinued, fentanyl plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to fentanyl.
Fexinidazole: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with fexinidazole is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Fexofenadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Finerenone: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if finerenone and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEI) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium during initiation or dose adjustment of either finerenone or amlodipine; a finerenone dosage reduction may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase finerenone exposure and the risk of hyperkalemia. Finerenone is a CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased overall exposure to finerenone by 21%.
Fish Oil, Omega-3 Fatty Acids (Dietary Supplements): (Moderate) High doses of fish oil supplements may produce a blood pressure lowering effect. It is possible that additive reductions in blood pressure may be seen when fish oils are used in a patient already taking antihypertensive agents.
Fluconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with fluconazole is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and fluconazole is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Fluorescein: (Moderate) Patients on angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors are at an increased risk of adverse reactions when administered fluorescein injection. If fluorescein injection is deemed necessary in a patient on ACE inhibitor therapy, monitor as appropriate during and after the procedure.
Flurbiprofen: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of ACE inhibitors and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Flutamide: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as flutamide, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
fluvoxaMINE: (Moderate) A dose reduction of amlodipine may be required during coadministration of fluvoxamine. Administering amlodipine with CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as fluvoxamine, may increase plasma concentrations of amlodipine, which might lead to hypotension and peripheral edema in some individuals.
Fosamprenavir: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with protease inhibitors is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Foscarbidopa; Foslevodopa: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting benazepril, if possible, or start benazepril at the lower dose of 5 mg/day. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure.
Fosphenytoin: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with hydantoins is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and hydantoins are strong CYP3A4 inducers. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Furosemide: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function during concomitant use of an ACE-inhibitor and loop diuretic. Concomitant use may increase the risk for symptomatic hypotension and renal injury; a dosage reduction of either medication may be required based on response. When initiating an ACE-inhibitor in a patient receiving a loop diuretic, start with the lowest recommended dose and titrate slowly based on response. For patients with additional risk factors for symptomatic hypotension, consider additional risk mitigation actions during therapy initiation, such an empiric dosage reduction or temporary interruption of loop diuretic therapy.
General anesthetics: (Major) The depression of cardiac contractility, conductivity, and automaticity as well as the vascular dilation associated with general anesthetics may be potentiated by calcium-channel blockers. Alternatively, general anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. When used concomitantly, anesthetics and calcium-channel blockers should be titrated carefully to avoid excessive cardiovascular depression. (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Ginkgo, Ginkgo biloba: (Moderate) Ginkgo biloba appears to inhibit the metabolism of calcium-channel blockers, perhaps by inhibiting the CYP3A4 isoenzyme. A non-controlled pharmacokinetic study in healthy volunteers found that the concurrent administration of ginkgo with nifedipine resulted in a 53% increase in nifedipine peak concentrations. More study is needed regarding ginkgo's effects on CYP3A4 and whether clinically significant drug interactions result.
Ginseng, Panax ginseng: (Moderate) Ginseng appears to inhibit the metabolism of calcium-channel blockers, perhaps by inhibiting the CYP3A4 isoenzyme. A non-controlled pharmacokinetic study in healthy volunteers found that the concurrent administration of ginseng with nifedipine resulted in a 30% increase in nifedipine peak concentrations. More study is needed regarding ginseng's effects on CYP3A4 and whether clinically significant drug interactions result.
Glimepiride: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sulfonylurea and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
glipiZIDE: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sulfonylurea and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sulfonylurea and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
glyBURIDE: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sulfonylurea and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sulfonylurea and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Gold: (Minor) Nitritoid reactions (facial flushing, diaphoresis, dizziness, nausea/vomiting, hypotension, tachycardia, syncope, and anaphylactic type reactions) or vasomotor reactions have been reported rarely in patients receiving injectable gold and concomitant ACE inhibitor therapy. Monitor closely for nitritoid reactions during co-therapy with gold and ACE inhibitor agents.
Grapefruit juice: (Major) Advise patients to avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice during amlodipine treatment due to the risk for increased amlodipine exposure and adverse reactions. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and grapefruit juice is a CYP3A inhibitor.
guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving phenylephrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Haloperidol: (Moderate) In general, antipsychotics like haloperidol should be used cautiously with antihypertensive agents due to the possibility of additive hypotension. (Moderate) In general, haloperidol should be used cautiously with antihypertensive agents due to the possibility of additive hypotension.
Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring. (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the calcium-channel blockers. Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like amlodipine can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If amlodipine is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
House Dust Mite Allergen Extract: (Moderate) Advise patients who are undergoing allergy testing or receiving maintenance allergen immunotherapy (AIT) that allergic reactions, including symptoms of anaphylaxis, may be more severe while receiving angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI) therapy. Risk varies by individual based on indication for therapy and history. This risk is generally considered minimal for most patients who are receiving maintenance AIT and the benefits of continuing ACEI therapy typically outweigh the risks in patients with cardiovascular disease.
Hydantoins: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with hydantoins is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and hydantoins are strong CYP3A4 inducers. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
hydrALAZINE; Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting benazepril, if possible, or start benazepril at the lower dose of 5 mg/day. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting benazepril, if possible, or start benazepril at the lower dose of 5 mg/day. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like amlodipine can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If amlodipine is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like amlodipine can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If amlodipine is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone. (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of ACE inhibitors and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Ibritumomab Tiuxetan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of potassium phosphate and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors as concurrent use may increase the risk of severe and potentially fatal hyperkalemia, particularly in high-risk patients (renal impairment, cardiac disease, adrenal insufficiency). If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor serum potassium concentrations. (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Ibuprofen: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of ACE inhibitors and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of ACE inhibitors and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of ACE inhibitors and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Icatibant: (Minor) Although clinical data are lacking, icatibant is a bradykinin B2 receptor antagonist and may theoretically potentiate the antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors.
Idelalisib: (Moderate) Coadministration of idelalisib with amlodipine may increase the systemic exposure of amlodipine resulting in amlodipine-related adverse events. Consider an amlodipine dose reduction if these agents are administered together and monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema.
Iloperidone: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, iloperidone can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use with antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of iloperidone and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Iloprost: (Moderate) Calcium-channel blockers can have additive hypotensive effects with other antihypertensive agents. This additive effect can be desirable, but the patient should be monitored carefully and the dosage should be adjusted based on clinical response. (Moderate) Further reductions in blood pressure may occur when inhaled iloprost is administered to patients receiving other antihypertensive agents.
Imatinib: (Moderate) Administering amlodipine with CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as imatinib, may increase the plasma concentration of amlodipine; this effect might lead to hypotension in some individuals. Caution should be used when imatinib is coadministered with amlodipine; therapeutic response should be monitored.
Incretin Mimetics: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Indapamide: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. In some patients, this may be desirable, but orthostatic hypotension may occur. Patients with hyponatremia or hypovolemia are more susceptible to developing reversible renal insufficiency when given an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE Inhibitors) and diuretic therapy concomitantly.
Indomethacin: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of ACE inhibitors and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Insulin Aspart: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Aspart; Insulin Aspart Protamine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Degludec: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Degludec; Liraglutide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Detemir: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Glargine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Glargine; Lixisenatide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Glulisine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Icodec: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Lispro: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Lispro; Insulin Lispro Protamine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin, Inhaled: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulins: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Intravenous Lipid Emulsions: (Moderate) High doses of fish oil supplements may produce a blood pressure lowering effect. It is possible that additive reductions in blood pressure may be seen when fish oils are used in a patient already taking antihypertensive agents.
Iodine; Potassium Iodide, KI: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Iodixanol: (Moderate) Because the use of other nephrotoxic drugs, including ACE inhibitors, is an additive risk factor for nephrotoxicity in patients receiving radiopaque contrast agents, ACE inhibitor therapy should be withheld, when possible, during radiopaque contrast agent administration.
Iohexol: (Moderate) Because the use of other nephrotoxic drugs, including ACE inhibitors, is an additive risk factor for nephrotoxicity in patients receiving radiopaque contrast agents, ACE inhibitor therapy should be withheld, when possible, during radiopaque contrast agent administration.
Iomeprol: (Moderate) Because the use of other nephrotoxic drugs, including ACE inhibitors, is an additive risk factor for nephrotoxicity in patients receiving radiopaque contrast agents, ACE inhibitor therapy should be withheld, when possible, during radiopaque contrast agent administration.
Iopamidol: (Moderate) Because the use of other nephrotoxic drugs, including ACE inhibitors, is an additive risk factor for nephrotoxicity in patients receiving radiopaque contrast agents, ACE inhibitor therapy should be withheld, when possible, during radiopaque contrast agent administration.
Iopromide: (Moderate) Because the use of other nephrotoxic drugs, including ACE inhibitors, is an additive risk factor for nephrotoxicity in patients receiving radiopaque contrast agents, ACE inhibitor therapy should be withheld, when possible, during radiopaque contrast agent administration.
Ioversol: (Moderate) Because the use of other nephrotoxic drugs, including ACE inhibitors, is an additive risk factor for nephrotoxicity in patients receiving radiopaque contrast agents, ACE inhibitor therapy should be withheld, when possible, during radiopaque contrast agent administration.
Irbesartan: (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting benazepril, if possible, or start benazepril at the lower dose of 5 mg/day. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure. (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
Iron Dextran: (Moderate) The concomitant use of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) with iron dextran may increase the risk for anaphylactic-type reactions. The factors that affect the risk for anaphylactic-type reactions to iron dextran products are not fully known but limited clinical data suggest the risk may be increased among patients with a history of drug allergy or multiple drug allergies. Patients should be monitored for signs and symptoms of anaphylactic-type reactions during all iron dextran administrations.
Isavuconazonium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of isavuconazonium with amlodipine may result in increased serum concentrations of amlodipine. Amlodipine is a substrate of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; isavuconazole, the active moiety of isavuconazonium, is a moderate inhibitor of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together.
Isocarboxazid: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may be seen when monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) are combined with antihypertensives. Careful monitoring of blood pressure is suggested during concurrent therapy of MAOIs with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Patients should be instructed to rise slowly from a sitting position, and to report syncope or changes in blood pressure or heart rate to their health care provider. (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may be seen when monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) are combined with antihypertensives. Careful monitoring of blood pressure is suggested during concurrent therapy of MAOIs with calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be instructed to rise slowly from a sitting position, and to report syncope or changes in blood pressure or heart rate to their health care provider.
Isoflurane: (Major) The depression of cardiac contractility, conductivity, and automaticity as well as the vascular dilation associated with general anesthetics may be potentiated by calcium-channel blockers. Alternatively, general anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. When used concomitantly, anesthetics and calcium-channel blockers should be titrated carefully to avoid excessive cardiovascular depression. (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Isoproterenol: (Moderate) The pharmacologic effects of isoproterenol may cause an increase in blood pressure. If isoproterenol is used concomitantly with antihypertensives, the blood pressure should be monitored as the administration of isoproterenol can compromise the effectiveness of antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) The pharmacologic effects of isoproterenol may cause an increase in blood pressure. If isoproterenol is used concomitantly with antihypertensives, the blood pressure should be monitored as the administration of isoproterenol can compromise the effectiveness of antihypertensive agents.
Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
Isosorbide Mononitrate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
Isosulfan Blue: (Moderate) Because the use of other nephrotoxic drugs, including ACE inhibitors, is an additive risk factor for nephrotoxicity in patients receiving radiopaque contrast agents, ACE inhibitor therapy should be withheld, when possible, during radiopaque contrast agent administration.
Itraconazole: (Moderate) Calcium-channel blockers can have a negative inotropic effect that may be additive to those of itraconazole. In addition, itraconazole may increase amlodipine serum concentrations via inhibition of CYP3A4 with the potential for amlodipine toxicity. Edema has been reported in patients receiving concomitantly itraconazole and amlodipine, therefore, caution is recommended when administering these medications in combination. A dosage reduction of the calcium-channel blocker may be appropriate.
Ixabepilone: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Ketamine: (Major) The depression of cardiac contractility, conductivity, and automaticity as well as the vascular dilation associated with general anesthetics may be potentiated by calcium-channel blockers. Alternatively, general anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. When used concomitantly, anesthetics and calcium-channel blockers should be titrated carefully to avoid excessive cardiovascular depression. (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Ketoconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ketoconazole is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
Ketoprofen: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of ACE inhibitors and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Ketorolac: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of ACE inhibitors and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Labetalol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Lacosamide: (Moderate) Use lacosamide with caution in patients taking concomitant medications that affect cardiac conduction, such as calcium-channel blockers, because of the risk of AV block, bradycardia, or ventricular tachyarrhythmia. If use together is necessary, obtain an ECG prior to lacosamide initiation and after treatment has been titrated to steady-state. In addition, monitor patients receiving lacosamide via the intravenous route closely.
Landiolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Lanreotide: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of bradycardia-inducing drugs (e.g., calcium-channel blockers) may have an additive effect on the reduction of heart rate associated with lanreotide. Adjust the calcium-channel blocker dose if necessary.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin and amlodipine, particularly in geriatric patients, due to an increased risk of hypotension and acute kidney injury. If the use of a macrolide antibiotic is necessary in a patient receiving amlodipine therapy, azithromycin is the preferred agent. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. A retrospective, case crossover study, found the risk of hospitalization due to hypotension or shock to be significantly increased in geriatric patients exposed to clarithromycin during concurrent calcium-channel blocker therapy (OR 3.7, 95% CI 2.3-6.1). Concurrent use of azithromycin was not associated with an increased risk of hypotension (OR 1.5, 95% CI 0.8-2.8).
Lanthanum Carbonate: (Moderate) ACE Inhibitors should not be taken within 2 hours of dosing with lanthanum carbonate. Oral compounds known to interact with cationic antacids may similarly be bound with lanthanum carbonate and have their absorption reduced. If these agents are used concomitantly, separate the dosing intervals appropriately. Monitor the clinical condition of the patient to ensure the proper clinical response to the ACE inhibitor is obtained.
Lasmiditan: (Moderate) Monitor heart rate if lasmiditan is coadministered with calcium-channel blockers as concurrent use may increase the risk for bradycardia. Lasmiditan has been associated with lowering of heart rate. In a drug interaction study, addition of a single 200 mg dose of lasmiditan to another heart rate lowering drug decreased heart rate by an additional 5 beats per minute.
Lefamulin: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with oral lefamulin is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and oral lefamulin is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; an interaction is not expected with intravenous lefamulin. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with lenacapavir is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Letermovir: (Moderate) Amlodipine dose reductions may be required during concurrent administration with letermovir; monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema to determine the need for dose adjustment. The magnitude of this interaction may be increased in patients who are also receiving cyclosporine. Administering these drugs together may increase amlodipine concentration and risk for adverse events. Amlodipine is a substrate of CYP3A4. Letermovir is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; however, when given with cyclosporine, the combined effect on CYP3A4 substrates may be similar to a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concurrent administration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased amlodipine exposure by 60%; however, another moderate inhibitor did not significantly change amlodipine exposure. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase amlodipine exposure to a greater extent.
Levobunolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Levodopa: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Levoketoconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ketoconazole is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Lidocaine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of systemic lidocaine and amlodipine may increase lidocaine plasma concentrations by decreasing lidocaine clearance and therefore prolonging the elimination half-life. Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if used together. Lidocaine is a CYP3A4 and CYP1A2 substrate; amlodipine inhibits CYP3A4.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine. (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including calcium-channel blockers, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine. (Moderate) Concomitant use of systemic lidocaine and amlodipine may increase lidocaine plasma concentrations by decreasing lidocaine clearance and therefore prolonging the elimination half-life. Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if used together. Lidocaine is a CYP3A4 and CYP1A2 substrate; amlodipine inhibits CYP3A4.
Lidocaine; Prilocaine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of systemic lidocaine and amlodipine may increase lidocaine plasma concentrations by decreasing lidocaine clearance and therefore prolonging the elimination half-life. Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if used together. Lidocaine is a CYP3A4 and CYP1A2 substrate; amlodipine inhibits CYP3A4.
Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Liraglutide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Lisdexamfetamine: (Minor) Lisdexamfetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Lisdexamfetamine might increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting benazepril, if possible, or start benazepril at the lower dose of 5 mg/day. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure.
Lithium: (Moderate) Monitor for neurologic adverse reactions during concomitant use of lithium and calcium channel blockers. Concomitant use may increase the risk of neurologic adverse reactions, such as ataxia, tremors, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and/or tinnitus. (Moderate) Monitor serum lithium concentrations during concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor use; reduce the lithium dose based on serum lithium concentration and clinical response. Concomitant use may increase steady-state lithium concentrations.
Lixisenatide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Lomitapide: (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and amlodipine may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lonafarnib and amlodipine; concurrent use may increase the exposure of both drugs and the risk of adverse effects. If coadministration is unavoidable, reduce to or continue lonafarnib at a dosage of 115 mg/m2 and closely monitor patients for lonafarnib-related adverse reactions and/or symptoms of hypotension and edema; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Resume previous lonafarnib dosage 14 days after discontinuing amlodipine. Lonafarnib is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Loop diuretics: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function during concomitant use of an ACE-inhibitor and loop diuretic. Concomitant use may increase the risk for symptomatic hypotension and renal injury; a dosage reduction of either medication may be required based on response. When initiating an ACE-inhibitor in a patient receiving a loop diuretic, start with the lowest recommended dose and titrate slowly based on response. For patients with additional risk factors for symptomatic hypotension, consider additional risk mitigation actions during therapy initiation, such an empiric dosage reduction or temporary interruption of loop diuretic therapy.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with protease inhibitors is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Loratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Lorlatinib: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with lorlatinib is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use may decrease amlodipine plasma concentrations, decreasing efficacy.
Losartan: (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting benazepril, if possible, or start benazepril at the lower dose of 5 mg/day. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure. (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
Lovastatin: (Moderate) Carefully weigh the benefits of combined use of amlodipine and lovastatin against the potential risks. Lovastatin exposure may increase resulting in increased risk of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis. Although FDA-approved labeling for amlodipine or lovastatin do not suggest dose adjustments, guidelines recommend limiting the dose of lovastatin to 20 mg/day if combined with amlodipine. Lovastatin is a CYP3A4 substrate; amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Lumacaftor; ivacaftor may decrease the systemic exposure and therapeutic efficacy of amlodipine. If used together, monitor blood pressure closely; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate. Lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Lumacaftor; ivacaftor may decrease the systemic exposure and therapeutic efficacy of amlodipine. If used together, monitor blood pressure closely; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate. Lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Lurasidone: (Moderate) Due to the antagonism of lurasidone at alpha-1 adrenergic receptors, the drug may enhance the hypotensive effects of alpha-blockers and other antihypertensive agents. If concurrent use of lurasidone and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Magnesium Salicylate: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Magnesium Salts: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sulfate salt bowel preparation in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors).
Magnesium Sulfate; Potassium Sulfate; Sodium Sulfate: (Moderate) Monitor renal function during concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor and magnesium sulfate; potassium sulfate; sodium sulfate bowel preparation due to risk for renal injury; ensure adequate hydration.
Maraviroc: (Minor) Use caution if coadministration of maraviroc with amlodipine is necessary, due to a possible increase in maraviroc exposure. Maraviroc is a CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Monitor for an increase in adverse effects with concomitant use.
Meclofenamate Sodium: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of ACE inhibitors and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Mefenamic Acid: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of ACE inhibitors and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Meglitinides: (Moderate) ACE inhibitors may enhance the hypoglycemic effects of insulin or other antidiabetic agents by improving insulin sensitivity. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents can become hypoglycemic if ACE inhibitors are administered concomitantly. Patients receiving these drugs concomitantly with antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in glycemic control.
Melatonin: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant calcium-channel blocker and melatonin use. Melatonin may impair the efficacy of calcium-channel blockers. In a placebo-controlled study, melatonin evening ingestion led to significant increases in blood pressure (6.5 mmHg systolic and 4.9 mmHg diastolic) and heart rate (3.9 bpm) throughout the day in patients taking a calcium channel blocker Melatonin appeared to antagonize the antihypertensive effects of the calcium channel blocker.
Meloxicam: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of ACE inhibitors and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of ACE inhibitors and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
metFORMIN; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
metFORMIN; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Methadone: (Moderate) Frequently monitor for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary; consider reducing the dose of methadone if clinically appropriate. If amlodipine is discontinued, monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal; consider increasing the methadone dose if needed. Methadone is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration with a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor like amlodipine can increase methadone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of methadone. If amlodipine is discontinued, methadone plasma concentrations may decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to methadone.
Methamphetamine: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Methenamine; Sodium Salicylate: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Methohexital: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely. (Moderate) Concurrent use of methohexital and antihypertensive agents increases the risk of developing hypotension.
Methoxsalen: (Minor) Preclinical data suggest that calcium-channel blockers could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
Methylergonovine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and amlodipine. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Methylphenidate Derivatives: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents, including calcium-channel blockers.
Methylphenidate: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents, including calcium-channel blockers.
metOLazone: (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting benazepril, if possible, or start benazepril at the lower dose of 5 mg/day. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure.
Metoprolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting benazepril, if possible, or start benazepril at the lower dose of 5 mg/day. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure. (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
miFEPRIStone: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with mifepristone is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and mifepristone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
Miglitol: (Moderate) ACE inhibitors may enhance the hypoglycemic effects of insulin or other antidiabetic agents by improving insulin sensitivity. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents can become hypoglycemic if ACE inhibitors are administered concomitantly. Patients receiving these drugs concomitantly with antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in glycemic control.
Milrinone: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of antihypertensive agents could lead to additive hypotension when administered with milrinone. Titrate milrinone dosage according to hemodynamic response. (Moderate) Concurrent administration of antihypertensive agents could lead to additive hypotension when administered with milrinone. Titrate milrinone dosage according to hemodynamic response.
Mitotane: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and amlodipine are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of amlodipine and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Mixed Grass Pollens Allergen Extract: (Moderate) Advise patients who are undergoing allergy testing or receiving maintenance allergen immunotherapy (AIT) that allergic reactions, including symptoms of anaphylaxis, may be more severe while receiving angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI) therapy. Risk varies by individual based on indication for therapy and history. This risk is generally considered minimal for most patients who are receiving maintenance AIT and the benefits of continuing ACEI therapy typically outweigh the risks in patients with cardiovascular disease.
Modafinil: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as modafinil are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Nabumetone: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of ACE inhibitors and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Nadolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Nafcillin: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as nafcillin, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound Sirolimus: (Major) Reduce the nab-sirolimus dose to 56 mg/m2 during concomitant use of amlodipine. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and increase the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. (Moderate) Sirolimus has been associated with the development of angioedema. The use of sirolimus with other drugs known to cause angioedema, such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors may increase the risk of developing angioedema. Patients should be monitored for angioedema if any of these drugs are coadministered with sirolimus.
Naproxen: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of ACE inhibitors and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of ACE inhibitors and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of ACE inhibitors and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Nateglinide: (Moderate) ACE inhibitors may enhance the hypoglycemic effects of insulin or other antidiabetic agents by improving insulin sensitivity. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents can become hypoglycemic if ACE inhibitors are administered concomitantly. Patients receiving these drugs concomitantly with antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in glycemic control.
Nebivolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Nefazodone: (Moderate) Administering amlodipine with CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as nefazodone, may increase the plasma concentration of amlodipine; this effect might lead to hypotension in some individuals. Caution should be used when nefazodone is coadministered with amlodipine; therapeutic response should be monitored. (Minor) Although relatively infrequent, nefazodone may cause orthostatic hypotension in some patients; this effect may be additive with antihypertensive agents. Blood pressure monitoring and dosage adjustments of either drug may be necessary.
Nelfinavir: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with protease inhibitors is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Netupitant, Fosnetupitant; Palonosetron: (Moderate) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inhibitors with amlodipine can theoretically decrease the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as netupitant, are coadministered with calcium-channel blockers. Monitor therapeutic response; a dose reduction of amlodipine; valsartan may be required.
Neuromuscular blockers: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium-channel blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Niacin, Niacinamide: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents, especially calcium-channel blockers. This effect is of particular concern in the setting of acute myocardial infarction, unstable angina, or other acute hemodynamic compromise. (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. This effect is of particular concern in the setting of acute myocardial infarction, unstable angina, or other acute hemodynamic compromise.
Nilotinib: (Moderate) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inhibitors with amlodipine can theoretically decrease the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as nilotinib, are coadministered with calcium-channel blockers. Monitor therapeutic response; a dose reduction of amlodipine may be required.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with protease inhibitors is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Nirogacestat: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with nirogacestat is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; nirogacestat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Nitrates: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
Nitroglycerin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin, including nitroglycerin rectal ointment, is used concurrently with a calcium-channel blocker.
Nitroprusside: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may occur when nitroprusside is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. Dosages should be adjusted carefully, according to blood pressure. (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may occur when nitroprusside is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. Dosages should be adjusted carefully, according to blood pressure.
Non-Ionic Contrast Media: (Moderate) Because the use of other nephrotoxic drugs, including ACE inhibitors, is an additive risk factor for nephrotoxicity in patients receiving radiopaque contrast agents, ACE inhibitor therapy should be withheld, when possible, during radiopaque contrast agent administration.
Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of ACE inhibitors and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Olanzapine may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the effects of antihypertensive agents.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Olanzapine may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the effects of antihypertensive agents.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Olanzapine may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the effects of antihypertensive agents.
Olmesartan: (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting benazepril, if possible, or start benazepril at the lower dose of 5 mg/day. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure. (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting benazepril, if possible, or start benazepril at the lower dose of 5 mg/day. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure. (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Moderate) Rifabutin may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers.
Orforglipron: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Oritavancin: (Moderate) Amlodipine is metabolized by CYP3A4; oritavancin is a weak CYP3A4 inducer. Plasma concentrations and efficacy of amlodipine may be reduced if these drugs are administered concurrently.
Oxaprozin: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of ACE inhibitors and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
OXcarbazepine: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as oxcarbazepine, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. If amlodipine is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with a weak inhibitor like amlodipine can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If amlodipine is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Oxymetazoline: (Major) The vasoconstricting actions of oxymetazoline, an alpha adrenergic agonist, may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. If these drugs are used together, closely monitor for changes in blood pressure. (Major) The vasoconstricting actions of oxymetazoline, an alpha adrenergic agonist, may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. If these drugs are used together, closely monitor for changes in blood pressure.
Pacritinib: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with pacritinib is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Paliperidone: (Moderate) Paliperidone may cause orthostatic hypotension, thereby enhancing the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. Orthostatic vital signs should be monitored in patients receiving paliperidone and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors who are susceptible to hypotension. (Moderate) Paliperidone may cause orthostatic hypotension, thereby enhancing the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. Orthostatic vital signs should be monitored in patients receiving paliperidone and calcium-channel blockers who are susceptible to hypotension.
Pasireotide: (Major) Pasireotide may cause a decrease in heart rate. Closely monitor patients who are also taking drugs associated with bradycardia such as calcium-channel blockers. Dose adjustments of calcium-channel blockers may be necessary.
PAZOPanib: (Moderate) Pazopanib is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration of pazopanib and amlodipine, a CYP3A4 substrate, may cause an increase in systemic concentrations of amlodipine. Use caution when administering these drugs concomitantly.
Peanut (Arachis hypogaea) Allergen Powder: (Moderate) Advise patients who are undergoing allergy testing or receiving maintenance allergen immunotherapy (AIT) that allergic reactions, including symptoms of anaphylaxis, may be more severe while receiving angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI) therapy. Risk varies by individual based on indication for therapy and history. This risk is generally considered minimal for most patients who are receiving maintenance AIT and the benefits of continuing ACEI therapy typically outweigh the risks in patients with cardiovascular disease.
PENTobarbital: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely.
Pentoxifylline: (Moderate) Pentoxifylline has been used concurrently with antihypertensive drugs (beta blockers, diuretics) without observed problems. Small decreases in blood pressure have been observed in some patients treated with pentoxifylline; periodic systemic blood pressure monitoring is recommended for patients receiving concomitant antihypertensives. If indicated, dosage of the antihypertensive agents should be reduced.
Perampanel: (Moderate) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as perampanel, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Pexidartinib: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with pexidartinib is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and pexidartinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Phenelzine: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may be seen when monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) are combined with antihypertensives. Careful monitoring of blood pressure is suggested during concurrent therapy of MAOIs with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Patients should be instructed to rise slowly from a sitting position, and to report syncope or changes in blood pressure or heart rate to their health care provider. (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may be seen when monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) are combined with antihypertensives. Careful monitoring of blood pressure is suggested during concurrent therapy of MAOIs with calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be instructed to rise slowly from a sitting position, and to report syncope or changes in blood pressure or heart rate to their health care provider.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as topiramate, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving phenylephrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Phenytoin: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with hydantoins is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and hydantoins are strong CYP3A4 inducers. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Photosensitizing agents (topical): (Minor) Preclinical data suggest that calcium-channel blockers could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy.
Pindolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Pioglitazone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant thiazolidinedione and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Pioglitazone; Glimepiride: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sulfonylurea and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant thiazolidinedione and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Pioglitazone; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant thiazolidinedione and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Piroxicam: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of ACE inhibitors and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Polyethylene Glycol; Electrolytes: (Moderate) Monitor renal function during concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor and magnesium sulfate; potassium sulfate; sodium sulfate bowel preparation due to risk for renal injury; ensure adequate hydration.
Polyethylene Glycol; Electrolytes; Ascorbic Acid: (Moderate) Monitor renal function during concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor and magnesium sulfate; potassium sulfate; sodium sulfate bowel preparation due to risk for renal injury; ensure adequate hydration.
Posaconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with posaconazole is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Posaconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor and amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
Potassium Acetate: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Potassium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Potassium Chloride: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Potassium Citrate: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Potassium Citrate; Citric Acid: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Potassium Gluconate: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Potassium Iodide, KI: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Potassium Phosphate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of potassium phosphate and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors as concurrent use may increase the risk of severe and potentially fatal hyperkalemia, particularly in high-risk patients (renal impairment, cardiac disease, adrenal insufficiency). If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor serum potassium concentrations.
Potassium Phosphate; Sodium Phosphate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of potassium phosphate and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors as concurrent use may increase the risk of severe and potentially fatal hyperkalemia, particularly in high-risk patients (renal impairment, cardiac disease, adrenal insufficiency). If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor serum potassium concentrations.
Potassium: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Pramlintide: (Moderate) ACE inhibitors may enhance the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by improving insulin sensitivity. Patients receiving these drugs concomitantly with antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in glycemic control.
Prazosin: (Moderate) Prazosin is well-known to produce a 'first-dose' phenomenon. Some patients develop significant hypotension shortly after administration of the first dose. The first dose response (acute postural hypotension) of prazosin may be exaggerated in patients who are receiving beta-adrenergic blockers, diuretics, or other antihypertensive agents. Concomitant administration of prazosin with other antihypertensive agents is not prohibited, however. This can be therapeutically advantageous, but lower dosages of each agent should be used. (Moderate) Prazosin is well-known to produce a 'first-dose' phenomenon. Some patients develop significant hypotension shortly after administration of the first dose. The first dose response (acute postural hypotension) of prazosin may be exaggerated in patients who are receiving beta-adrenergic blockers, diuretics, or other antihypertensive agents. Concomitant administration of prazosin with other antihypertensive agents is not prohibited, however. This can be therapeutically advantageous, but lower dosages of each agent should be used. The use of alpha-blockers with verapamil can lead to excessive hypotension; In addition, verapamil has been reported to increase the AUC and Cmax of prazosin.
Pregabalin: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of angioedema during concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor and pregabalin use. Concomitant use may increase the risk of developing angioedema.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine. (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including calcium-channel blockers, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine.
Primidone: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely.
Procainamide: (Moderate) Procainamide can decrease blood pressure and should be used cautiously in patients receiving antihypertensive agents. Intravenous administration of procainamide is more likely to cause hypotensive effects. (Moderate) Procainamide can decrease blood pressure and should be used cautiously in patients receiving antihypertensive agents. Intravenous administration of procainamide is more likely to cause hypotensive effects.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Phenylephrine's cardiovascular effects may reduce the antihypertensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear to be at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving phenylephrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Propofol: (Major) The depression of cardiac contractility, conductivity, and automaticity as well as the vascular dilation associated with general anesthetics may be potentiated by calcium-channel blockers. Alternatively, general anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. When used concomitantly, anesthetics and calcium-channel blockers should be titrated carefully to avoid excessive cardiovascular depression. (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Protease inhibitors: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with protease inhibitors is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Pyridoxine, Vitamin B6: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure during concurrent use of calcium and calcium-channel blockers. Concomitant use may reduce the response to calcium-channel blockers.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting benazepril, if possible, or start benazepril at the lower dose of 5 mg/day. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure.
quiNIDine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased quinidine adverse reactions if coadministered with amlodipine. Taking these drugs together may increase quinidine plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in adverse events. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; quinidine is a substrate of CYP3A4 with a narrow therapeutic index. In addition, quinidine can decrease blood pressure and should be used cautiously in patients receiving antihypertensive agents due to the potential for additive hypotension. (Moderate) Quinidine can decrease blood pressure and should be used cautiously in patients receiving antihypertensive agents due to the potential for additive hypotension.
quiNINE: (Moderate) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inhibitors with amlodipine can theoretically decrease the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as quinine, are coadministered with calcium-channel blockers. Monitor therapeutic response; a dose reduction of amlodipine may be required.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may be seen when monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) are combined with antihypertensives. Careful monitoring of blood pressure is suggested during concurrent therapy of MAOIs with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Patients should be instructed to rise slowly from a sitting position, and to report syncope or changes in blood pressure or heart rate to their health care provider. (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may be seen when monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) are combined with antihypertensives. Careful monitoring of blood pressure is suggested during concurrent therapy of MAOIs with calcium-channel blockers. Patients should be instructed to rise slowly from a sitting position, and to report syncope or changes in blood pressure or heart rate to their health care provider during concurrent use of an MAOI and a calcium-channel blocker.
Regular Insulin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Regular Insulin; Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Relacorilant: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with relacorilant is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
Remifentanil: (Moderate) The risk of significant hypotension and/or bradycardia during therapy with remifentanil may be increased in patients receiving calcium-channel blockers due to additive hypotensive effects.
Repaglinide: (Moderate) ACE inhibitors may enhance the hypoglycemic effects of insulin or other antidiabetic agents by improving insulin sensitivity. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents can become hypoglycemic if ACE inhibitors are administered concomitantly. Patients receiving these drugs concomitantly with antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in glycemic control.
Repotrectinib: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with repotrectinib is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Ribociclib: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ribociclib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ribociclib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Rifabutin: (Moderate) Rifabutin may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers.
rifAMPin: (Moderate) Rifampin is a potent inducer of the cytochrome P450 hepatic enzyme system and can reduce the plasma concentrations and possibly the efficacy of calcium-channel blockers. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers.
Rifapentine: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with rifapentine is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Rilzabrutinib: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with rilzabrutinib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Risperidone has been associated with orthostatic hypotension and may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. Clinically significant hypotension has been observed with concomitant use of risperidone and antihypertensive medications. Lower initial doses or slower dose titration of risperidone may be necessary in patients receiving antihypertensive agents concomitantly. (Moderate) Risperidone may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. Lower initial doses or slower dose titration of risperidone may be necessary in patients receiving antihypertensive agents concomitantly.
Ritlecitinib: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with ritlecitinib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Ritonavir: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with protease inhibitors is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Rocuronium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium-channel blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Sacubitril; Valsartan: (Contraindicated) Sacubitril; valsartan is contraindicated with the concomitant use of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) due to the increased risk of angioedema. Do not administer sacubitril; valsartan within 36 hours of switching to or from an ACE inhibitor. (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
Salicylates: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Salsalate: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Saquinavir: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with protease inhibitors is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Secobarbital: (Major) Barbiturates may induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of calcium-channel blockers such as amlodipine, and thereby reduce their oral bioavailability. The dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent enzyme inducers; monitor blood pressure closely.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogen containing oral contraceptives can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients.
Semaglutide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Serdexmethylphenidate; Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. (Moderate) Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives. Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents, including calcium-channel blockers.
Sevoflurane: (Major) The depression of cardiac contractility, conductivity, and automaticity as well as the vascular dilation associated with general anesthetics may be potentiated by calcium-channel blockers. Alternatively, general anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of calcium-channel blockers. When used concomitantly, anesthetics and calcium-channel blockers should be titrated carefully to avoid excessive cardiovascular depression. (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
SGLT2 Inhibitors: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Short Ragweed Pollen Allergen Extract: (Moderate) Advise patients who are undergoing allergy testing or receiving maintenance allergen immunotherapy (AIT) that allergic reactions, including symptoms of anaphylaxis, may be more severe while receiving angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI) therapy. Risk varies by individual based on indication for therapy and history. This risk is generally considered minimal for most patients who are receiving maintenance AIT and the benefits of continuing ACEI therapy typically outweigh the risks in patients with cardiovascular disease.
Sildenafil: (Moderate) Monitor for additive hypotension if amlodipine is administered concurrently with sildenafil, as both agents act independently to reduce blood pressure. When sildenafil 100 mg was co-administered with amlodipine (5 mg or 10 mg) to hypertensive patients, the mean additional reduction on supine blood pressure (SBP) was 8 mmHg systolic and 7 mmHg diastolic.
Silodosin: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if silodosin is coadministered with amlodipine. The incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension were increased in patients also receiving antihypertensive medications in clinical trials.
Simvastatin: (Major) Do not exceed a simvastatin dose of 20 mg/day in patients taking amlodipine due to increased risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis. For patients chronically receiving simvastatin 80 mg/day who need to be started on amlodipine, consider switching to an alternative statin with less potential for interaction. Carefully weigh the benefits of combined use of amlodipine and simvastatin against the potential risks. Amlodipine increases the simvastatin exposure by approximately 1.5-fold.
Sincalide: (Moderate) Sincalide-induced gallbladder ejection fraction may be affected by calcium-channel blockers. False study results are possible in patients with drug-induced hyper- or hypo-responsiveness; thorough patient history is important in the interpretation of results.
Sirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor sirolimus concentrations and adjust sirolimus dosage as appropriate during concomitant use of amlodipine. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and increase the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. (Moderate) Sirolimus has been associated with the development of angioedema. The use of sirolimus with other drugs known to cause angioedema, such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors may increase the risk of developing angioedema. Patients should be monitored for angioedema if any of these drugs are coadministered with sirolimus.
Sodium Nitrite; Sodium Thiosulfate: (Moderate) Sodium nitrite causes vasodilation resulting in hypotension. Antihypertensive agents and other hypotension-producing agents such as vasodilators and tricyclic antidepressants can cause additive hypotensive or orthostatic effects.
Sodium Phosphate Monobasic Monohydrate; Sodium Phosphate Dibasic Anhydrous: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Sodium picosulfate; Magnesium oxide; Anhydrous citric acid: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
Sodium Sulfate; Magnesium Sulfate; Potassium Chloride: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sulfate salt bowel preparation in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors).
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir: (Moderate) Use caution when administering velpatasvir with amlodipine. Taking these drugs together may increase velpatasvir plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in adverse events. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; velpatasvir is a substrate of CYP3A4.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir; Voxilaprevir: (Moderate) Use caution when administering velpatasvir with amlodipine. Taking these drugs together may increase velpatasvir plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in adverse events. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; velpatasvir is a substrate of CYP3A4.
Sotagliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Sotalol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Sotorasib: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with sotorasib is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and sotorasib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Sparsentan: (Major) Hold angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor therapy when initiating sparsentan and until a stable dose of sparsentan is achieved. Frequently monitor potassium during concomitant use due to the increased risk for hyperkalemia.
Spironolactone: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if ACE inhibitors and spironolactone are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in elderly patients or patients with impaired renal function.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting benazepril, if possible, or start benazepril at the lower dose of 5 mg/day. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure. (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if ACE inhibitors and spironolactone are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in elderly patients or patients with impaired renal function.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with St. John's Wort is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and St. John's Wort is a strong CYP3A inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Succinylcholine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium-channel blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Because the dose of the sufentanil sublingual tablets cannot be titrated, consider an alternate opiate if amlodipine must be administered. Consider a reduced dose of sufentanil injection with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. If amlodipine is discontinued, consider increasing the sufentanil injection dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Sufentanil is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor like amlodipine can increase sufentanil exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of sufentanil. If amlodipine is discontinued, sufentanil plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to sufentanil.
Sulfacetamide; Sulfur: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Sulfamethoxazole; Trimethoprim, SMX-TMP, Cotrimoxazole: (Moderate) Monitor for hyperkalemia if concomitant use of an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and trimethoprim is necessary. Avoid concomitant use and consider alternative antibiotic therapy in patients with additional risk factors for hyperkalemia, including patients older than 65 years, those with underlying disorders of potassium metabolism, renal insufficiency, or those requiring high doses of trimethoprim. Amongst patients older than 65 years, concomitant use has been associated with a 2- to 7-fold increased risk of significant hyperkalemia compared to other antibiotics. Trimethoprim has a potassium-sparing effect on the distal nephron and may induce hyperkalemia, especially in those with pre-existing risk factors.
Sulfonylureas: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sulfonylurea and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Sulindac: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of ACE inhibitors and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of ACE inhibitors and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Tacrolimus: (Moderate) Monitor for increased tacrolimus adverse reactions if coadministered with amlodipine. Taking these drugs together may increase tacrolimus plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in adverse events. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; tacrolimus is a substrate of CYP3A4 with a narrow therapeutic index. (Moderate) Tacrolimus, in the absence of overt renal impairment, may adversely affect renal function. Care should be taken in using tacrolimus with other nephrotoxic drugs, including ACE inhibitors.
Tamsulosin: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of tamsulosin with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. In addition, diltiazem, nicardipine, and verapamil may increase tamsulosin plasma concentrations via CYP3A4 inhibition. This interaction can be therapeutically advantageous, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
Telavancin: (Moderate) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs such as Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Telmisartan: (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy. (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. In some patients, this may be desirable, but orthostatic hypotension may occur. Patients with hyponatremia or hypovolemia are more susceptible to developing reversible renal insufficiency when given an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE Inhibitors) and diuretic therapy concomitantly.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting benazepril, if possible, or start benazepril at the lower dose of 5 mg/day. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure. (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
Temsirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of angioedema if temsirolimus is administered concomitantly with amlodipine. Angioedema has been reported in patients taking mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors in combination with amlodipine. (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of angioedema if temsirolimus is administered concomitantly with benazepril. Angioedema has been reported in patients taking mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors in combination with another ACE inhibitor.
Tetrabenazine: (Moderate) Tetrabenazine may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. Lower initial doses or slower dose titration of tetrabenazine may be necessary in patients receiving antihypertensive agents concomitantly. (Moderate) Tetrabenazine may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. Lower initial doses or slower dose titration of tetrabenazine may be necessary in patients receiving antihypertensive agents concomitantly.
Tetracaine: (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents. Use extreme caution with the concomitant use of tetracaine and antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents. Use extreme caution with the concomitant use of tetracaine and antihypertensive agents.
Thalidomide: (Moderate) Thalidomide and other agents that slow cardiac conduction such as calcium-channel blockers should be used cautiously due to the potential for additive bradycardia.
Thiazide diuretics: (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting benazepril, if possible, or start benazepril at the lower dose of 5 mg/day. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure.
Thiazolidinediones: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant thiazolidinedione and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Thiothixene: (Moderate) Thiothixene should be used cautiously in patients receiving antihypertensive agents. Additive hypotensive effects are possible.
Timolol: (Moderate) Coadministration of amlodipine and beta-blockers can reduce angina and improve exercise tolerance. When these drugs are given together, however, hypotension and impaired cardiac performance can occur, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac arrhythmias, or aortic stenosis.
Timothy Grass Pollen Allergen Extract: (Moderate) Advise patients who are undergoing allergy testing or receiving maintenance allergen immunotherapy (AIT) that allergic reactions, including symptoms of anaphylaxis, may be more severe while receiving angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI) therapy. Risk varies by individual based on indication for therapy and history. This risk is generally considered minimal for most patients who are receiving maintenance AIT and the benefits of continuing ACEI therapy typically outweigh the risks in patients with cardiovascular disease.
Tipranavir: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with protease inhibitors is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Tirzepatide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
tiZANidine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy.
Tolmetin: (Moderate) If nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and an antihypertensive drug are concurrently used, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of renal insufficiency and blood pressure control. Doses of antihypertensive medications may require adjustment in patients receiving concurrent NSAIDs. NSAIDs, to varying degrees, have been associated with an elevation in blood pressure. This effect is most significant in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive agents and long-term NSAID therapy. NSAIDs cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation, which may result in a reduction in renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and an increase in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients who rely upon renal prostaglandins to maintain renal perfusion may have acute renal blood flow reduction with NSAID usage. Elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse effects from combined long-term NSAID therapy and antihypertensive agents, especially diuretics, due to age-related decreases in renal function and an increased risk of stroke and coronary artery disease. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of ACE inhibitors and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Tolvaptan: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if tolvaptan and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) are used together. In clinical studies, hyperkalemia was reported at a rate 1% to 2% higher when tolvaptan was administered with ACE inhibitors compared to administration of these medications with placebo.
Topiramate: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as topiramate, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Torsemide: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function during concomitant use of an ACE-inhibitor and loop diuretic. Concomitant use may increase the risk for symptomatic hypotension and renal injury; a dosage reduction of either medication may be required based on response. When initiating an ACE-inhibitor in a patient receiving a loop diuretic, start with the lowest recommended dose and titrate slowly based on response. For patients with additional risk factors for symptomatic hypotension, consider additional risk mitigation actions during therapy initiation, such an empiric dosage reduction or temporary interruption of loop diuretic therapy.
traMADol: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of amlodipine, a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of amlodipine, a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with verapamil is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Tranylcypromine: (Contraindicated) The use of hypotensive agents and tranylcypromine is contraindicated by the manufacturer of tranylcypromine because the effects of hypotensive agents may be markedly potentiated. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of calcium-channel blockers and tranylcypromine due to the risk of additive hypotension. Potential for this interaction persists for up to 10 days after discontinuation of tranylcypromine (or 4 to 5 half-lives after discontinuation of the calcium-channel blocker). If a medication-free interval is not feasible, initiate therapy at the lowest appropriate dose and monitor blood pressure closely.
traZODone: (Minor) Due to additive hypotensive effects, patients receiving antihypertensive agents concurrently with trazodone may have excessive hypotension. Decreased dosage of the antihypertensive agent may be required when given with trazodone. (Minor) Due to additive hypotensive effects, patients receiving antihypertensive agents concurrently with trazodone may have excessive hypotension. Decreased dosage of the antihypertensive agent may be required when given with trazodone.
Treprostinil: (Moderate) Calcium-channel blockers can have additive hypotensive effects with other antihypertensive agents. This additive effect can be desirable, but the patient should be monitored carefully and the dosage should be adjusted based on clinical response.
Triamterene: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if ACE inhibitors and triamterene are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in elderly patients or patients with impaired renal function.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting benazepril, if possible, or start benazepril at the lower dose of 5 mg/day. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure. (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if ACE inhibitors and triamterene are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in elderly patients or patients with impaired renal function.
Triazolam: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with amlodipine and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Trimethoprim: (Moderate) Monitor for hyperkalemia if concomitant use of an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and trimethoprim is necessary. Avoid concomitant use and consider alternative antibiotic therapy in patients with additional risk factors for hyperkalemia, including patients older than 65 years, those with underlying disorders of potassium metabolism, renal insufficiency, or those requiring high doses of trimethoprim. Amongst patients older than 65 years, concomitant use has been associated with a 2- to 7-fold increased risk of significant hyperkalemia compared to other antibiotics. Trimethoprim has a potassium-sparing effect on the distal nephron and may induce hyperkalemia, especially in those with pre-existing risk factors.
Tucatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with tucatinib is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Tucatinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor and amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
Valproic Acid, Divalproex Sodium: (Minor) Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers with amlodipine can theoretically increase the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine (a CYP3A4 substrate). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inducers, such as valproic acid, divalproex sodium, are coadministered with amlodipine. Monitor therapeutic response; the dosage requirements of amlodipine may be increased.
Valsartan: (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting benazepril, if possible, or start benazepril at the lower dose of 5 mg/day. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure. (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
Vecuronium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and calcium-channel blockers may prolong neuromuscular blockade.
Vemurafenib: (Moderate) Vemurafenib is an inducer of CYP3A4 and decreased plasma concentrations of drugs metabolized by this enzyme, such as amlodipine, could be expected with concurrent use. Use caution, and monitor therapeutic effects of amlodipine when coadministered with vemurafenib.
Verapamil: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with verapamil is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Verteporfin: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of verteporfin with calcium channel blockers is necessary due to the risk of increased photosensitivity. Verteporfin is a light-activated drug used in photodynamic therapy; all patients treated with verteporfin will be photosensitive. Concomitant use with calcium channel blockers could enhance the rate of verteporfin uptake by the vascular endothelium, resulting in enhanced photosensitivity.
Vinorelbine: (Moderate) Monitor for an earlier onset and/or increased severity of vinorelbine-related adverse reactions, including constipation and peripheral neuropathy, if coadministration with amlodipine is necessary. Vinorelbine is a CYP3A4 substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Vitamin B Complex Supplements: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents, especially calcium-channel blockers. This effect is of particular concern in the setting of acute myocardial infarction, unstable angina, or other acute hemodynamic compromise. (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. This effect is of particular concern in the setting of acute myocardial infarction, unstable angina, or other acute hemodynamic compromise.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin and amlodipine, particularly in geriatric patients, due to an increased risk of hypotension and acute kidney injury. If the use of a macrolide antibiotic is necessary in a patient receiving amlodipine therapy, azithromycin is the preferred agent. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. A retrospective, case crossover study, found the risk of hospitalization due to hypotension or shock to be significantly increased in geriatric patients exposed to clarithromycin during concurrent calcium-channel blocker therapy (OR 3.7, 95% CI 2.3-6.1). Concurrent use of azithromycin was not associated with an increased risk of hypotension (OR 1.5, 95% CI 0.8-2.8).
Voriconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with voriconazole is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Voriconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor and amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent.
Voxelotor: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema if coadministration of amlodipine with voxelotor is necessary; adjust the dose of amlodipine as clinically appropriate. Amlodipine is a CYP3A substrate; voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in elderly hypertensive patients increased systemic exposure to amlodipine by 60%. However, coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine exposure.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Closely monitor the INR if coadministration of warfarin with amlodipine is necessary as concurrent use may increase the exposure of warfarin leading to increased bleeding risk. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor and the R-enantiomer of warfarin is a CYP3A4 substrate. The S-enantiomer of warfarin exhibits 2 to 5 times more anticoagulant activity than the R-enantiomer, but the R-enantiomer generally has a slower clearance.
Zafirlukast: (Minor) Zafirlukast is a CYP3A4 inhibitor which theoretically may decrease the hepatic metabolism of amlodipine, a CYP3A4 substrate.
Ziprasidone: (Minor) Ziprasidone is a moderate antagonist of alpha-1 receptors and may cause orthostatic hypotension with or without tachycardia, dizziness, or syncope. Additive hypotensive effects are possible if ziprasidone is used concurrently with antihypertensive agents. (Minor) Ziprasidone is a moderate antagonist of alpha-1 receptors and may cause orthostatic hypotension with or without tachycardia, dizziness, or syncope. Additive hypotensive effects are possible if ziprasidone is used concurrently with antihypertensive agents.


Adverse Reaction
General Information

Monotherapies of benazepril and amlodipine have been evaluated for safety in clinical trials in over 6,000 and 11,000 patients, respectively. The observed adverse reactions to the monotherapies in these trials were similar to those seen in trials of amlodipine; benazepril (Lotrel).

cough, dizziness, edema, headache, peripheral edema, peripheral vasodilation


Amlodipine; benazepril therapy is generally well tolerated at therapeutic doses. The most common reason for discontinuation is edema (including dependent peripheral edema, which is usually dose-dependent, and facial edema) or cough. Most of the reported reactions are of mild to moderate severity and are related to peripheral vasodilation due to amlodipine or cough due to benazepril. Cough (3.3%), headache (2.2%), dizziness (1.3%), and edema (2.1%) are reported most frequently with combination therapy. Cough was the only adverse event with at least possible relationship to treatment that was more common with amlodipine; benazepril than with placebo (3.3% vs. 0.2%, respectively). Compared to the same doses of benazepril and amlodipine monotherapy, amlodipine; benazepril regimens are associated with less edema and greater antihypertensive effects.


abdominal pain, asthenia, constipation, diarrhea, drowsiness, dyspepsia, esophagitis, fatigue, gynecomastia, nausea, xerostomia


Side effects considered possibly or probably related to amlodipine; benazepril that occurred in U.S. placebo-controlled trials of amlodipine; benazepril (incidence not reported) or in post-marketing experience include the following gastrointestinal side effects: dry mouth (xerostomia), nausea, abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, and esophagitis. General body system side effects included asthenia and fatigue. Gynecomastia has been infrequently reported with calcium channel blockers and may occur with amlodipine. Somnolence (drowsiness) has also been reported infrequently.


angina, chest pain (unspecified), hypotension, myocardial infarction, palpitations, sinus tachycardia


Amlodipine; benazepril can cause symptomatic hypotension. Like other ACE inhibitors, benazepril has been only rarely associated with hypotension in uncomplicated hypertensive patients. Symptomatic hypotension is most likely to occur in patients who have been volume and/or salt depleted as a result of prolonged diuretic therapy, dietary salt restriction, dialysis, diarrhea, or vomiting. Volume and/or salt depletion should be corrected before initiating therapy. Since the vasodilation induced by amlodipine is gradual in onset, acute hypotension has rarely been reported during amlodipine monotherapy. If hypotension occurs, the patient should be placed in a supine position, and if necessary, treated with intravenous infusion of physiologic saline. Amlodipine; benazepril treatment usually can be continued following restoration of blood pressure and volume. Some patients, particularly those with severe obstructive coronary artery disease, have rarely developed documented increased frequency, duration, or severity of angina or acute myocardial infarction when starting calcium channel blocker therapy or at the time of dosage increase. The mechanism of this effect has not been elucidated; however, it may be a result of excessive hypotension, myocardial steal, or a reflex increase in myocardial contractility. Infrequently reported events seen in clinical trials or in post-marketing experience with ACE inhibitors and/or calcium-channel blockers include chest pain (unspecified), palpitations, sinus tachycardia, and ventricular extrasystole.


anxiety, impotence (erectile dysfunction), insomnia, libido decrease, neuritis, tinnitus, tremor


Adverse effects possibly or probably related to amlodipine; benazepril that occurred in U.S. placebo-controlled trials or in post-marketing experience included the following: insomnia, nervousness, anxiety, tremor, impotence (erectile dysfunction), and libido decrease. Other adverse effects reported infrequently with ACE inhibitors and/or calcium-channel blockers include neuritis and tinnitus.


gingival hyperplasia


Gingival hyperplasia is a reported potential side effect of amlodipine. It has not been specifically reported during the use of amlodipine; benazepril.


eosinophilic pneumonia, pharyngitis


Pharyngitis has been reported in amlodipine; benazepril-treated patients in U.S. placebo-controlled trials or in post-marketing experience. Upper respiratory tract infection has been reported rarely with ACE inhibitors and/or calcium-channel blockers. Although not reported with benazepril, eosinophilic pneumonia has occurred rarely with other ACE inhibitors (e.g., captopril and moexipril).


anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, laryngeal edema


Angioedema (includes edema of the lips or face without other manifestations of angioedema) considered probably related to amlodipine; benazepril occurred in U.S. placebo-controlled trials or in post-marketing experience; angioedema has occurred in roughly 0.5% of patients receiving benazepril. ACE inhibitors have been associated with anaphylactoid reactions, likely due to their inhibitory effect on eicosanoid and polypeptide metabolism, including bradykinin metabolism. Black patients receiving ACE inhibitors have been reported to have a higher incidence of angioedema compared to non-Black patients. Amlodipine; benazepril therapy should be discontinued immediately if angioedema involving the face, tongue, larynx (laryngeal edema), or glottis occurs because airway obstruction is likely, and the patient should be promptly treated with appropriate emergency therapy. Rarely, intestinal angioedema has been reported during post-marketing experience with ACE inhibitors. Patients with intestinal angioedema may present with abdominal pain (with or without nausea or vomiting). In some cases there is no prior history of facial angioedema and C-1 esterase levels are normal. Intestinal angioedema can be diagnosed by procedures including abdominal CT scan or ultrasound, or at surgery. Symptoms resolve after stopping the ACE inhibitor. Intestinal angioedema should be included in the differential diagnosis of patients receiving ACE inhibitors who present with abdominal pain.


hyperkalemia, hypokalemia


In U.S. placebo-controlled trials of amlodipine; benazepril, hyperkalemia (serum potassium at least 0.5 mEq/L greater than the upper limit of normal) not present at baseline occurred in approximately 1.5% of hypertensive patients receiving the drug. Increases in serum potassium were generally reversible. Risk factors for the development of hyperkalemia include renal insufficiency, diabetes mellitus, and the concomitant use of potassium-sparing diuretics, potassium supplements, and/or potassium-containing salt substitutes. Hypokalemia has also been reported in placebo-controlled trials or in post-marketing experience. Monitoring of serum potassium concentrations is recommended.


azotemia, gout, hyperbilirubinemia, hyperuricemia, oliguria, polyuria, renal failure (unspecified)


Renal insufficiency can occur during therapy with ACE inhibitors. Renal function should be monitored closely during initial therapy with benazepril. Minor reversible increases in serum creatinine were observed in patients with essential hypertension treated with amlodipine; benazepril. Increases in creatinine are more likely to occur in patients with renal insufficiency or those pretreated with a diuretic and, based on experience with other ACE inhibitors, would be expected to be especially likely in patients with renal artery stenosis. If acute azotemia (elevated serum creatinine or BUN) occurs, or if renal artery stenosis is suspected, amlodipine; benazepril therapy should be discontinued. In patients with congestive heart failure, with or without associated renal insufficiency, ACE inhibitor therapy may cause excessive hypotension, which may be associated with oliguria, azotemia, and (rarely) with acute renal failure (unspecified) and death. Clinically important changes in standard laboratory tests were rarely associated with amlodipine; benazepril administration. Elevations of serum bilirubin (hyperbilirubinemia) and uric acid (hyperuricemia) have been reported. Other infrequently reported events seen in clinical trials or in post-marketing experience included gout and polyuria.


alopecia, flushing, hot flashes, rash (unspecified), Stevens-Johnson syndrome


Dermatologic and allergic-related side effects considered possibly or probably related to amlodipine; benazepril that occurred in U.S. placebo-controlled trials or in post-marketing experience included: flushing, hot flashes, rash (unspecified), skin nodule, and dermatitis. Other rare dermatologic reactions reported during post marketing experience with monotherapy with the product components include alopecia and Stevens-Johnson syndrome.


cholestasis, elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatic failure, hepatic necrosis, jaundice


In post-marketing experience with amlodipine, hepatotoxicity has been reported rarely. Jaundice and elevated hepatic enzymes (mostly consistent with cholestasis), severe enough to require hospitalization, have been reported. Rarely, ACE inhibitors have been associated with a syndrome that starts with cholestatic jaundice and progresses to fulminant hepatic necrosis, hepatic failure, and (sometimes) death. The mechanism of this syndrome is not understood. Patients who develop jaundice or marked elevations of hepatic enzymes while on amlodipine; benazepril should discontinue the drug and receive appropriate medical therapy and monitoring.


hemolytic anemia, neutropenia, pemphigus, thrombocytopenia


In post-marketing experience with benazepril, there have been rare reports of hemolytic anemia, pemphigus, and thrombocytopenia. Neutropenia has been reported during post-marketing experience with amlodipine; benazepril combination therapy.


pancreatitis


Pancreatitis may occur during amlodipine; benazepril therapy. In post-marketing experience with benazepril, there have been rare reports of pancreatitis.


teratogenesis


Due to the potential for teratogenesis, amlodipine; benazepril should not be used during pregnancy. Drugs that affect the renin-angiotensin system have been associated with fetal and neonatal abnormalities when administered to women during the second or third trimesters of pregnancy. Adverse fetal and neonatal effects have included hypotension, neonatal skull hypoplasia, anuria, renal failure, oligohydramnios, and death. Oligohydramnios has been associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations. If oliguria or hypotension occurs in a neonate with a history of in utero exposure to amlodipine; benazepril, blood pressure and renal perfusion support may be required, as well as exchange transfusion or dialysis to reverse hypotension and/or support decreased renal function.


back pain, muscle cramps, musculoskeletal pain


Side effects considered possibly or probably related to study drug that occurred in U.S. placebo-controlled trials of patients treated with amlodipine; benazepril or in post-marketing experience include: back pain, musculoskeletal pain, cramps, and muscle cramps.


Description

Amlodipine; benazepril is an oral combination indicated for the treatment of hypertension. The combination therapy is used once a patient has been titrated with individual components. Amlodipine is a dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker and is a potent peripheral vasodilator, similar to nifedipine and other members of the dihydropyridine class, although amlodipine has the longest half-life of the group, thus allowing for once-daily dosing. Benazepril is an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor. Benazepril is a prodrug that is hydrolyzed by esterases to the active metabolite benazeprilat, whose long duration of action makes benazepril suitable for once-daily dosing. Benazepril and benazeprilat lack a sulfhydryl group, which has implications for the safety profile. Benazepril monotherapy is less effective in black hypertensive patients (a low-renin hypertensive population), and the antihypertensive effects of the combination product are primarily attributed to the amlodipine component in this population. Compared to the same doses of amlodipine and benazepril monotherapy, combination regimens are associated with less edema and greater antihypertensive effects.

Mechanism Of Action

The effects of benazepril and amlodipine on blood pressure are greater than that achieved with monotherapy of either drug, except in black patients. Amlodipine lowers systemic blood pressure by decreasing vascular resistance; whereas ACE inhibitors lower blood pressure by blocking the renin-angiotensin system.
 
•Amlodipine: Amlodipine inhibits the influx of extracellular calcium across the myocardial and vascular smooth muscle cell membranes. Serum calcium levels remain unchanged. Amlodipine inhibits this influx, and the resultant decrease in intracellular calcium inhibits the contractile processes of the myocardial smooth muscle cells, resulting in dilation of the coronary and systemic arteries. As with other calcium-channel blockers of the dihydropyridine class, amlodipine exerts its effects mainly on arteriolar vasculature. It has no significant effect on sinus node function or cardiac conduction, nor does it possess negative inotropic effects at clinical doses. Because it has a gradual onset, reflex tachycardia does not occur, a side effect that is common with other peripheral vasodilators. Amlodipine therapy usually does not affect hemodynamic parameters in patients with normal ventricular function and has not worsened heart failure in patients with well-compensated heart failure (i.e., NYHA Class II and Class III); however, the drug should be used cautiously in patients with NYHA Class IV heart failure.
 
Amlodipine reduces coronary vascular resistance and increases coronary blood flow. These actions increase oxygen delivery to the myocardial tissue. Myocardial oxygen consumption is also reduced. Thus, amlodipine's beneficial effects in the treatment of angina are a result of multiple actions. In general, calcium-channel blockers exert favorable effects on LVH, and do not worsen insulin resistance or exert detrimental effects on the lipid profile.
 
•Benazepril: Benazepril competes with angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) for the substrate angiotensin I, thereby blocking its conversion to angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a potent vasoconstrictor and a negative-feedback mediator for renin activity. Thus, when benazepril lowers angiotensin II plasma levels, blood pressure decreases and plasma renin activity increases. In addition, baroreceptor reflex mechanisms are stimulated in response to the fall in blood pressure. ACE inhibition also blocks the conversion of bradykinin, a potent vasodilator, to inactive peptides. Whether increased bradykinin levels play a part in the therapeutic effects of ACE inhibitors is presently unclear. Bradykinin-induced vasodilation is thought to be of secondary importance in the blood-pressure lowering effect of ACE inhibitors. A bradykinin mechanism may, however, contribute to ACE-inhibitor-induced angioneurotic edema and cough.
 
ACE-inhibiting drugs may act locally to reduce vascular tone by decreasing local angiotensin II-induced sympathetic and/or vasoconstrictive activity. Decreases in plasma angiotensin II levels also reduce aldosterone secretion, subsquently decreasing sodium and water retention.
 
Benazepril causes arterial dilation, thereby lowering total peripheral vascular resistance. In hypertensive patients, blood pressure is decreased, with little or no change in heart rate, stroke volume, or cardiac output. Both standing and supine blood pressure are reduced following administration of benazepril, and although symptomatic hypotension is rare, it could occur more often in patients who are hypovolemic or hyponatremic. As antihypertensives, ACE inhibitors reduce LVH, do not worsen insulin resistance, and generally do not cause sexual dysfunction.

Pharmacokinetics

Amlodipine; benazepril is administered orally. Concomitant administration of benazepril with amlodipine has no effect on the bioavailability of either drug. The effect of food on absorption is unknown; however, food does not affect the absorption of benazepril or amlodipine when given separately.
Amlodipine: Amlodipine is approximately 93% bound to plasma proteins, but drug interactions secondary to displacement from binding sites have not been documented. Like other calcium-channel blockers, amlodipine is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 isoenzymes. It is extensively metabolized to inactive compounds, and 10% of the parent compound and 60% of the inactive metabolites are excreted in the urine. The terminal half-life is about 30—50 hours, which is significantly longer than the other currently available dihydropyridines. Steady-state plasma levels are reached after 7 to 8 days of consecutive daily dosing.
Benazepril: Benazepril is 95% plasma protein-bound and has a small volume of distribution. Benazepril is a prodrug; the peak plasma concentrations of the active component, benazeprilat, are reached within 1—2 hours in the fasting state and within 2—4 hours if given with food. Hepatic metabolism is required to generate the active metabolite benazeprilat, so maximum effects are delayed. The hypotensive effects last approximately 24 hours, allowing for once-daily dosing.  Parent drug is almost totally converted to benazeprilat, which is, in turn, eliminated primarily renally, and to a lesser extent (11—12%) by biliary excretion in patients with normal renal function. The effective half-life of benazeprilat is 10—11 hours.
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A4

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route


Amlodipine: Amlodipine is slowly but almost completely absorbed after oral administration. Oral bioavailability ranges from 64—90%. Peak plasma concentrations are achieved between 6—12 hours post-dose, and maximum hypotensive effects are correspondingly delayed. Food does not appear to influence these parameters.
Benazepril: Benazepril is absorbed rapidly from the GI tract. Benazepril is a prodrug; the peak plasma concentrations of the active component, benazeprilat, are reached within 1—2 hours in the fasting state and within 2—4 hours if given with food. Food does not affect the extent of absorption of benazepril given as monotherapy. After oral administration, noticeable cardiovascular effects begin within 1 hour, with peak reductions occurring after 2—4 hours.


Hepatic Impairment


Amlodipine: Amlodipine is extensively metabolized in the liver; the plasma elimination half-life is prolonged 56 hours in patients with hepatic impairment. In patients with hepatic dysfunction, decreased clearance of amlodipine may increase the area-under-the-plasma-concentration curve (AUC) by 40%-60%, and dosage reduction may be required.
Benazepril: In patients with hepatic dysfunction due to cirrhosis, the serum levels of benazeprilat are essentially unchanged.


Renal Impairment


Amlodipine: The pharmacokinetics of amlodipine are not affected by renal impairment.
Benazepril: The disposition of benazepril and benazeprilat in patients with CrCl > 30 mL/min is similar to that in patients with normal renal function; however, in patients with CrCl < 30 mL/min, peak benazeprilat levels and the initial half-life (alpha phase) are increased. In patients with renal failure, biliary clearance may partially compensate for deficient renal clearance.


Geriatric


Amlodipine: The clearance of amlodipine is decreased in the elderly, with resulting increases of 35%—70% in peak plasma levels (Cmax), elimination half-life (T1/2), and area-under-the-plasma-concentration curve (AUC). The elimination half-life of single 5 mg oral doses is significantly prolonged in the elderly (48 vs. 30—50 hours). Amlodipine clearance is reduced and AUC is increased by approximately 40—60%. Dose adjustment may be required.
Benazepril: The pharmacokinetics of benazepril and benazeprilat are unaffected by age.


Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Oral Administration


Amlodipine-Benazepril may be administered at the same time each day, with or without food.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

10 mg/day PO amlodipine and 40 mg/day PO benazepril.

Elderly

10 mg/day PO amlodipine and 40 mg/day PO benazepril.

Adolescents

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Children

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

Amlodipine Besylate 10mg, Benazepril Hydrochloride 20mg Oral capsule

Amlodipine Besylate 10mg, Benazepril Hydrochloride 40mg Oral capsule

Amlodipine Besylate 2.5mg, Benazepril Hydrochloride 10mg Oral capsule

Amlodipine Besylate 5mg, Benazepril Hydrochloride 10mg Oral capsule

Amlodipine Besylate 5mg, Benazepril Hydrochloride 20mg Oral capsule

Amlodipine Besylate 5mg, Benazepril Hydrochloride 40mg Oral capsule

Lotrel 10mg-20mg Capsule

Lotrel 10mg-40mg Capsule

Lotrel 5mg-10mg Capsule

Lotrel 5mg-20mg Capsule

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Initiate dosage of the amlodipine component at 2.5 mg/day PO. Adjust amlodipine dosage based on clinical response, usually up to 5 mg/day PO. The elimination half-life of amlodipine is significantly prolonged in patients with hepatic disease. The dosage of the benazepril component should be adjusted based on clinical response; benazeprilat serum concentrations are essentially unchanged in hepatic disease.

Renal Impairment

CrCl > 30 mL/min: No dosage adjustment of amlodipine or benazepril is necessary.
CrCl <= 30 mL/min: The combination product is not recommended by the manufacturer since the recommended dose of benazepril of 5 mg/day PO is not achievable with the combination (Lotrel) product.
 
Intermittent hemodialysis
Benazeprilat is only slightly dialyzable. Amlodipine is highly protein bound and is not likely to be significantly removed by hemodialysis.

© 2026 Elsevier