=== Alosetron — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 2234)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Alosetron is an oral selective serotonin 5-HT3 receptor antagonist.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 2 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): colitis, gastroesophageal reflux, gi bleeding, gi obstruction, gi perforation, hemorrhoids, ileus, infection, toxic megacolon, confusion, drowsiness, headache, cholecystitis, elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatitis, atopic dermatitis, folliculitis, rash (unspecified), urticaria, alopecia, bone pain, cough, diuresis, dysgeusia, increased urinary frequency, menstrual irregularity, myalgia, photophobia, polyuria

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. constipation, Crohn disease, diverticulitis, geriatric, GI perforation, intestinal obstruction, ischemic colitis, serious gastrointestinal events, thrombophilia, thrombophlebitis, toxic...

ALOSETRON

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Lotronex

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of severe, chronic, diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) in women for whom conventional therapy has failed

Oral dosage
Adult Females


0.5 mg PO twice daily, initially. Hold therapy if constipation occurs; resume at 0.5 mg PO once daily once constipation resolves. May increase the dose up to 1 mg PO twice daily after 4 weeks if lower doses are well tolerated but do not adequately control symptoms. Discontinue therapy if constipation recurs at the lowest dose or if adequate control of symptoms is not achieved after 4 weeks at the maximum dose.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

constipation, Crohn disease, diverticulitis, geriatric, GI perforation, intestinal obstruction, ischemic colitis, serious gastrointestinal events, thrombophilia, thrombophlebitis, toxic megacolon, ulcerative colitis


Infrequent but serious gastrointestinal events have been reported with the use of aloestron. These events, including ischemic colitis and serious complications of constipation, have resulted in hospitalization, and rarely, blood transfusion, surgery, and death. Alosetron is contraindicated in people with a history of the following: chronic or severe constipation or sequelae from constipation; intestinal obstruction, stricture, toxic megacolon, GI perforation, and/or intestinal adhesions; ischemic colitis, impaired intestinal circulation, thrombophlebitis, or hypercoagulable state (thrombophilia); Crohn disease, ulcerative colitis, or diverticulitis. Geriatric adults, debilitated adults, or people taking additional medications that decrease gastrointestinal motility may be at greater risk for complications of constipation. Because ischemic colitis can be life-threatening, patients with signs or symptoms of ischemic colitis should be evaluated promptly and have appropriate diagnostic testing performed. Discontinue alosetron immediately in patients who develop constipation or symptoms of ischemic colitis.


Child-Pugh class A, Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure


Alosetron is contraindicated in people with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C) and hepatic failure because it is extensively metabolized by the liver, and increased exposure is likely to occur in these individuals, which may increase the risk of serious adverse reactions. Use alosetron with caution in people with mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class A) or moderate hepatic impairment (and Child-Pugh class B).


pregnancy


Data are insufficient to advise a drug-associated risk of alosetron use during pregnancy for major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. In animal reproduction studies, no adverse developmental effects were observed with oral administration of alosetron during the period of organogenesis to pregnant rats at doses up to 40 mg/kg/day (60 times the recommended human dose based on body surface area) or to pregnant rabbits at doses up to 30 mg/kg/day (240 times the recommended daily human dose based on body surface area).


breast-feeding


Use alosetron with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data regarding the presence of alosetron in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed infant, or its effects on milk production. Alosetron and its metabolites are present in animal milk. If alosetron is used during breast-feeding, monitor infants for severe constipation and blood in stools. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the patient's clinical need for alosetron, and any potential adverse effects on the breast-fed child from the medication or from the underlying maternal medical condition.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Data are insufficient to advise a drug-associated risk of alosetron use during pregnancy for major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. In animal reproduction studies, no adverse developmental effects were observed with oral administration of alosetron during the period of organogenesis to pregnant rats at doses up to 40 mg/kg/day (60 times the recommended human dose based on body surface area) or to pregnant rabbits at doses up to 30 mg/kg/day (240 times the recommended daily human dose based on body surface area).


Interactions

Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like sedating H1 blockers, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Major) Patients taking medications that decrease GI motility may be at greater risk for serious complications from alosetron, like constipation, via a pharmacodynamic interaction. Constipation is the most frequently reported adverse effect with alosetron. Alosetron, if used with drugs such as opiate agonists, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like sedating H1 blockers, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like sedating H1 blockers, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like sedating H1 blockers, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like sedating H1 blockers, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like sedating H1 blockers, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like sedating H1 blockers, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Major) Patients taking medications that decrease GI motility may be at greater risk for serious complications from alosetron, like constipation, via a pharmacodynamic interaction. Constipation is the most frequently reported adverse effect with alosetron. Alosetron, if used with drugs such as opiate agonists, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like sedating H1 blockers, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Acetaminophen; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like sedating H1 blockers, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Major) Patients taking medications that decrease GI motility may be at greater risk for serious complications from alosetron, like constipation, via a pharmacodynamic interaction. Constipation is the most frequently reported adverse effect with alosetron. Alosetron, if used with drugs such as opiate agonists, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Major) Patients taking medications that decrease GI motility may be at greater risk for serious complications from alosetron, like constipation, via a pharmacodynamic interaction. Constipation is the most frequently reported adverse effect with alosetron. Alosetron, if used with drugs such as opiate agonists, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Acetaminophen; Pamabrom; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like sedating H1 blockers, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Adagrasib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of alosetron with adagrasib may result in increased serum concentrations of alosetron and increase the risk for adverse reactions. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together. Alosetron is a substrate of hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A; adagrasib is a strong inhibitor of this enzyme. In a study of healthy female subjects, another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased mean alosetron AUC by 29%.
ALFentanil: (Major) Patients taking medications that decrease GI motility may be at greater risk for serious complications from alosetron, like constipation, via a pharmacodynamic interaction. Constipation is the most frequently reported adverse effect with alosetron. Alosetron, if used with drugs such as opiate agonists, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Amantadine: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like amantadine, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like tricyclic antidepressants, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Amoxapine: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like amoxapine, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of alosetron with clarithromycin may result in increased serum concentrations of alosetron and increase the risk for adverse reactions. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together. Alosetron is a substrate of hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; clarithromycin is a strong inhibitor of this enzyme. In a study of healthy female subjects, another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased mean alosetron AUC by 29%.
Anticholinergics: (Major) Concomitant use of alosetron and anticholinergics, which can decrease GI motility, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstuction, impaction, or paralytic ileus. Although specific recommendations are not available from the manufacturer, it would be prudent to avoid anticholinergics in patients taking alosetron.
Antidiarrheals: (Moderate) Use alosetron with caution and monitoring in patients taking additional medications that may reduce gastric motility, including antidiarrheals, due to increased risk for serious complications of constipation.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like orphenadrine, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Major) Patients taking medications that decrease GI motility may be at greater risk for serious complications from alosetron, like constipation, via a pharmacodynamic interaction. Constipation is the most frequently reported adverse effect with alosetron. Alosetron, if used with drugs such as opiate agonists, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Major) Patients taking medications that decrease GI motility may be at greater risk for serious complications from alosetron, like constipation, via a pharmacodynamic interaction. Constipation is the most frequently reported adverse effect with alosetron. Alosetron, if used with drugs such as opiate agonists, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Atazanavir: (Major) Due to atazanavir-induced inhibition of CYP3A4 isoenzymes, atazanavir may inhibit the metabolism and thus, increase the serum concentrations of drugs that are largely metabolized via CYP3A4, such as alosetron. Serious drug interactions may occur. If these drugs must be coadministered, monitor patient response and adjust the dose of alosetron if necessary.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Due to atazanavir-induced inhibition of CYP3A4 isoenzymes, atazanavir may inhibit the metabolism and thus, increase the serum concentrations of drugs that are largely metabolized via CYP3A4, such as alosetron. Serious drug interactions may occur. If these drugs must be coadministered, monitor patient response and adjust the dose of alosetron if necessary. (Moderate) Concomitant use of alosetron with cobicistat may result in increased serum concentrations of alosetron and increase the risk for adverse reactions. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together. Alosetron is a substrate of hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of this enzyme. In a study of healthy female subjects, another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased mean alosetron AUC by 29%.
Atropine: (Major) Concomitant use of alosetron and anticholinergics, which can decrease GI motility, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstuction, impaction, or paralytic ileus. Although specific recommendations are not available from the manufacturer, it would be prudent to avoid anticholinergics in patients taking alosetron.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Contraindicated) Patients taking medications that decrease GI motility may be at greater risk for serious complications from alosetron, like constipation, via a pharmacodynamic interaction. Constipation is the most frequently reported adverse effect with alosetron. Alosetron, if used with drugs such as antidiarrheals, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus. (Major) Concomitant use of alosetron and anticholinergics, which can decrease GI motility, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstuction, impaction, or paralytic ileus. Although specific recommendations are not available from the manufacturer, it would be prudent to avoid anticholinergics in patients taking alosetron.
Belladonna; Opium: (Major) Concomitant use of alosetron and anticholinergics, which can decrease GI motility, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstuction, impaction, or paralytic ileus. Although specific recommendations are not available from the manufacturer, it would be prudent to avoid anticholinergics in patients taking alosetron. (Major) Patients taking medications that decrease GI motility may be at greater risk for serious complications from alosetron, like constipation, via a pharmacodynamic interaction. Constipation is the most frequently reported adverse effect with alosetron. Alosetron, if used with drugs such as opiate agonists, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Major) Patients taking medications that decrease GI motility may be at greater risk for serious complications from alosetron, like constipation, via a pharmacodynamic interaction. Constipation is the most frequently reported adverse effect with alosetron. Alosetron, if used with drugs such as opiate agonists, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Major) Concomitant use of alosetron and anticholinergics, which can decrease GI motility, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstuction, impaction, or paralytic ileus. Although specific recommendations are not available from the manufacturer, it would be prudent to avoid anticholinergics in patients taking alosetron.
Benztropine: (Major) Concomitant use of alosetron and anticholinergics, which can decrease GI motility, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstuction, impaction, or paralytic ileus. Although specific recommendations are not available from the manufacturer, it would be prudent to avoid anticholinergics in patients taking alosetron.
Bethanechol: (Moderate) Pharmacodynamic interactions between alosetron and drugs that enhance peristalsis are theoretically possible, based on opposing pharmacologic outcomes. It may be wise to avoid use of bethanechol during alosetron treatment. Although these potential interactions have not been studied, bethanechol might negate the effect of alosetron.
Bismuth Subsalicylate: (Moderate) Use alosetron with caution and monitoring in patients taking additional medications that may reduce gastric motility, including antidiarrheals, due to increased risk for serious complications of constipation.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Use alosetron with caution and monitoring in patients taking additional medications that may reduce gastric motility, including antidiarrheals, due to increased risk for serious complications of constipation.
Brompheniramine: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like sedating H1 blockers, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like sedating H1 blockers, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like sedating H1 blockers, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like sedating H1 blockers, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like sedating H1 blockers, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Major) Concomitant use of alosetron and anticholinergics, which can decrease GI motility, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstuction, impaction, or paralytic ileus. Although specific recommendations are not available from the manufacturer, it would be prudent to avoid anticholinergics in patients taking alosetron.
Buprenorphine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of buprenorphine and antidiarrheals can lead to severe constipation and possibly additive CNS depression.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Concurrent use of buprenorphine and antidiarrheals can lead to severe constipation and possibly additive CNS depression.
buPROPion: (Moderate) Alosetron, if used with drugs that have anticholinergic effects such as bupropion, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus. Although specific recommendations are not available from the manufacturer, it would be prudent to avoid these drugs in patients taking alosetron.
buPROPion; Naltrexone: (Moderate) Alosetron, if used with drugs that have anticholinergic effects such as bupropion, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus. Although specific recommendations are not available from the manufacturer, it would be prudent to avoid these drugs in patients taking alosetron.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Patients taking medications that decrease GI motility may be at greater risk for serious complications from alosetron, like constipation, via a pharmacodynamic interaction. Constipation is the most frequently reported adverse effect with alosetron. Alosetron, if used with drugs such as opiate agonists, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Patients taking medications that decrease GI motility may be at greater risk for serious complications from alosetron, like constipation, via a pharmacodynamic interaction. Constipation is the most frequently reported adverse effect with alosetron. Alosetron, if used with drugs such as opiate agonists, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Capmatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alosetron and capmatinib unless clinically necessary due to the risk of increased plasma concentrations of alosetron. Alosetron is a CYP1A2 substrate and capmatinib is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor increased alosetron exposure by approximately 6-fold and prolonged the half-life by approximately 3-fold. Concomitant use with moderate CYP1A2 inhibitors has not been evaluated, but is expected to have similar potential drug interactions.
carBAMazepine: (Minor) Alosetron is metabolized by CYP1A2 and CYP3A4. Carbamazepine can induce the activity of these enzymes and increase the metabolism of alosetron. Concomitant administration of carbamazepine and alosetron has not been evaluated.
Carbinoxamine: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like sedating H1 blockers, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Major) Patients taking medications that decrease GI motility may be at greater risk for serious complications from alosetron, like constipation, via a pharmacodynamic interaction. Constipation is the most frequently reported adverse effect with alosetron. Alosetron, if used with drugs such as opiate agonists, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Ceritinib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of alosetron with ceritinib may result in increased serum concentrations of alosetron and increase the risk for adverse reactions. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together. Alosetron is a substrate of hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; ceritinib is a strong inhibitor of this enzyme. In a study of healthy female subjects, another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased mean alosetron AUC by 29%.
Chlophedianol; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like sedating H1 blockers, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like sedating H1 blockers, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Chlorcyclizine: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like sedating H1 blockers, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like tricyclic antidepressants, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Major) Concomitant use of alosetron and anticholinergics, which can decrease GI motility, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstuction, impaction, or paralytic ileus. Although specific recommendations are not available from the manufacturer, it would be prudent to avoid anticholinergics in patients taking alosetron.
Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like sedating H1 blockers, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Major) Patients taking medications that decrease GI motility may be at greater risk for serious complications from alosetron, like constipation, via a pharmacodynamic interaction. Constipation is the most frequently reported adverse effect with alosetron. Alosetron, if used with drugs such as opiate agonists, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus. (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like sedating H1 blockers, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like sedating H1 blockers, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like sedating H1 blockers, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like sedating H1 blockers, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Patients taking medications that decrease GI motility may be at greater risk for serious complications from alosetron, like constipation, via a pharmacodynamic interaction. Constipation is the most frequently reported adverse effect with alosetron. Alosetron, if used with drugs such as opiate agonists, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus. (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like sedating H1 blockers, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like sedating H1 blockers, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like sedating H1 blockers, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like sedating H1 blockers, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
chlorproMAZINE: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like phenothiazines, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Ciprofloxacin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alosetron and ciprofloxacin due to the potential for increased exposure and half-life of alosetron. Ciprofloxacin is a strong inhibitor of CYP1A2; alosetron is a CYP1A2 substrate. Coadministration of another strong CYP1A2 inhibitor increased the mean alosetron AUC by about 6-fold and prolonged the half-life by 3-fold.
Cisapride: (Moderate) Pharmacodynamic interactions between alosetron and drugs that enhance peristalsis, such as cisapride, are theoretically possible based on opposing pharmacologic outcomes. It may be wise to avoid use of cisapride concurrently. Although this potential interaction has not been studied, cisapride might negate the effect of alosetron.
Clarithromycin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of alosetron with clarithromycin may result in increased serum concentrations of alosetron and increase the risk for adverse reactions. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together. Alosetron is a substrate of hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; clarithromycin is a strong inhibitor of this enzyme. In a study of healthy female subjects, another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased mean alosetron AUC by 29%.
Clemastine: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like sedating H1 blockers, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like tricyclic antidepressants, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like clozapine, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Cobicistat: (Moderate) Concomitant use of alosetron with cobicistat may result in increased serum concentrations of alosetron and increase the risk for adverse reactions. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together. Alosetron is a substrate of hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of this enzyme. In a study of healthy female subjects, another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased mean alosetron AUC by 29%.
Codeine: (Major) Patients taking medications that decrease GI motility may be at greater risk for serious complications from alosetron, like constipation, via a pharmacodynamic interaction. Constipation is the most frequently reported adverse effect with alosetron. Alosetron, if used with drugs such as opiate agonists, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Major) Patients taking medications that decrease GI motility may be at greater risk for serious complications from alosetron, like constipation, via a pharmacodynamic interaction. Constipation is the most frequently reported adverse effect with alosetron. Alosetron, if used with drugs such as opiate agonists, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus. (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like sedating H1 blockers, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Major) Patients taking medications that decrease GI motility may be at greater risk for serious complications from alosetron, like constipation, via a pharmacodynamic interaction. Constipation is the most frequently reported adverse effect with alosetron. Alosetron, if used with drugs such as opiate agonists, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Patients taking medications that decrease GI motility may be at greater risk for serious complications from alosetron, like constipation, via a pharmacodynamic interaction. Constipation is the most frequently reported adverse effect with alosetron. Alosetron, if used with drugs such as opiate agonists, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) Patients taking medications that decrease GI motility may be at greater risk for serious complications from alosetron, like constipation, via a pharmacodynamic interaction. Constipation is the most frequently reported adverse effect with alosetron. Alosetron, if used with drugs such as opiate agonists, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus. (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like phenothiazines, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Major) Patients taking medications that decrease GI motility may be at greater risk for serious complications from alosetron, like constipation, via a pharmacodynamic interaction. Constipation is the most frequently reported adverse effect with alosetron. Alosetron, if used with drugs such as opiate agonists, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus. (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like phenothiazines, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Crofelemer: (Contraindicated) Serious and life-threatening constipation and bowel obstruction has been reported in IBS patients taking alosetron in combination with other agents to control diarrhea. The mechanism is pharmacodynamic additive constipation. Patients who have previously been on alosetron should discontinue this medication prior to taking crofelemer.
Cyclobenzaprine: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like cyclobenzaprine, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Cyproheptadine: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like sedating H1 blockers, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Dalfopristin; Quinupristin: (Moderate) Dalfopristin; quinupristin is a major inhibitor of cytochrome P450 3A4 and may decrease the elimination of drugs metabolized by this enzyme including alosetron.
Darunavir: (Major) Caution is warranted when darunavir is administered with alosetron as there is a potential for elevated alosetron concentrations. Alosetron is a CYP3A4 substrate; darunavir is an inhibitor of CYP3A4.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Caution is warranted when darunavir is administered with alosetron as there is a potential for elevated alosetron concentrations. Alosetron is a CYP3A4 substrate; darunavir is an inhibitor of CYP3A4. (Moderate) Concomitant use of alosetron with cobicistat may result in increased serum concentrations of alosetron and increase the risk for adverse reactions. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together. Alosetron is a substrate of hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of this enzyme. In a study of healthy female subjects, another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased mean alosetron AUC by 29%.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Caution is warranted when darunavir is administered with alosetron as there is a potential for elevated alosetron concentrations. Alosetron is a CYP3A4 substrate; darunavir is an inhibitor of CYP3A4. (Moderate) Concomitant use of alosetron with cobicistat may result in increased serum concentrations of alosetron and increase the risk for adverse reactions. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together. Alosetron is a substrate of hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of this enzyme. In a study of healthy female subjects, another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased mean alosetron AUC by 29%.
Desipramine: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like tricyclic antidepressants, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alosetron and ethinyl estradiol unless clinically necessary due to the risk of increased plasma concentrations of alosetron. Alosetron is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor increased alosetron exposure by approximately 6-fold and prolonged the half-life by approximately 3-fold. Concomitant use with moderate CYP1A2 inhibitors has not been evaluated, but is expected to have similar potential drug interactions.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alosetron and ethinyl estradiol unless clinically necessary due to the risk of increased plasma concentrations of alosetron. Alosetron is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor increased alosetron exposure by approximately 6-fold and prolonged the half-life by approximately 3-fold. Concomitant use with moderate CYP1A2 inhibitors has not been evaluated, but is expected to have similar potential drug interactions.
dexAMETHasone: (Minor) Dexamethasone can induce the activity of CYP3A4 and increase the metabolism of alosetron by increasing the metabolism of the drug, thus potentially reducing the effect of alosetron.
Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like sedating H1 blockers, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like sedating H1 blockers, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like sedating H1 blockers, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Dexchlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like sedating H1 blockers, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like sedating H1 blockers, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Dextromethorphan; buPROPion: (Moderate) Alosetron, if used with drugs that have anticholinergic effects such as bupropion, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus. Although specific recommendations are not available from the manufacturer, it would be prudent to avoid these drugs in patients taking alosetron.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like sedating H1 blockers, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Dicyclomine: (Major) Concomitant use of alosetron and anticholinergics, which can decrease GI motility, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstuction, impaction, or paralytic ileus. Although specific recommendations are not available from the manufacturer, it would be prudent to avoid anticholinergics in patients taking alosetron.
dimenhyDRINATE: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like sedating H1 blockers, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like sedating H1 blockers, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like sedating H1 blockers, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like sedating H1 blockers, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like sedating H1 blockers, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Contraindicated) Patients taking medications that decrease GI motility may be at greater risk for serious complications from alosetron, like constipation, via a pharmacodynamic interaction. Constipation is the most frequently reported adverse effect with alosetron. Alosetron, if used with drugs such as antidiarrheals, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus. (Major) Concomitant use of alosetron and anticholinergics, which can decrease GI motility, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstuction, impaction, or paralytic ileus. Although specific recommendations are not available from the manufacturer, it would be prudent to avoid anticholinergics in patients taking alosetron.
Disopyramide: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like disopyramide, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Doxepin: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like tricyclic antidepressants, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Doxylamine: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like sedating H1 blockers, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Doxylamine; Pyridoxine: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like sedating H1 blockers, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alosetron and ethinyl estradiol unless clinically necessary due to the risk of increased plasma concentrations of alosetron. Alosetron is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor increased alosetron exposure by approximately 6-fold and prolonged the half-life by approximately 3-fold. Concomitant use with moderate CYP1A2 inhibitors has not been evaluated, but is expected to have similar potential drug interactions.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alosetron and ethinyl estradiol unless clinically necessary due to the risk of increased plasma concentrations of alosetron. Alosetron is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor increased alosetron exposure by approximately 6-fold and prolonged the half-life by approximately 3-fold. Concomitant use with moderate CYP1A2 inhibitors has not been evaluated, but is expected to have similar potential drug interactions.
Eluxadoline: (Major) Avoid use of eluxadoline with medications that may cause constipation, such as alosetron. Discontinue use of eluxadoline in patients who develop severe constipation lasting more than 4 days.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of alosetron with cobicistat may result in increased serum concentrations of alosetron and increase the risk for adverse reactions. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together. Alosetron is a substrate of hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of this enzyme. In a study of healthy female subjects, another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased mean alosetron AUC by 29%.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of alosetron with cobicistat may result in increased serum concentrations of alosetron and increase the risk for adverse reactions. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together. Alosetron is a substrate of hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; cobicistat is a strong inhibitor of this enzyme. In a study of healthy female subjects, another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased mean alosetron AUC by 29%.
Enasidenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alosetron and enasidenib due to the potential for increased exposure and half-life of alosetron. Alosetron is a CYP1A2 substrate; enasidenib is a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP1A2 inhibitor increased the mean alosetron AUC by about 6-fold and prolonged the half-life by 3-fold.
Ensitrelvir: (Moderate) Concomitant use of alosetron with ensitrelvir may result in increased serum concentrations of alosetron and increase the risk for adverse reactions. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together. Alosetron is a substrate of hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A; ensitrelvir is a strong inhibitor of this enzyme. In a study of healthy female subjects, another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased mean alosetron AUC by 29%.
Erythromycin: (Moderate) Pharmacodynamic interactions between alosetron and drugs that enhance peristalsis are theoretically possible, based on opposing pharmacologic outcomes. It may be prudent to avoid use of erythromycin (when used to enhance GI motility) during alosetron treatment. Although a potential interaction has not been studied, erythromycin might negate the effect of alosetron. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alosetron and ethinyl estradiol unless clinically necessary due to the risk of increased plasma concentrations of alosetron. Alosetron is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor increased alosetron exposure by approximately 6-fold and prolonged the half-life by approximately 3-fold. Concomitant use with moderate CYP1A2 inhibitors has not been evaluated, but is expected to have similar potential drug interactions.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alosetron and ethinyl estradiol unless clinically necessary due to the risk of increased plasma concentrations of alosetron. Alosetron is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor increased alosetron exposure by approximately 6-fold and prolonged the half-life by approximately 3-fold. Concomitant use with moderate CYP1A2 inhibitors has not been evaluated, but is expected to have similar potential drug interactions.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alosetron and ethinyl estradiol unless clinically necessary due to the risk of increased plasma concentrations of alosetron. Alosetron is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor increased alosetron exposure by approximately 6-fold and prolonged the half-life by approximately 3-fold. Concomitant use with moderate CYP1A2 inhibitors has not been evaluated, but is expected to have similar potential drug interactions.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alosetron and ethinyl estradiol unless clinically necessary due to the risk of increased plasma concentrations of alosetron. Alosetron is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor increased alosetron exposure by approximately 6-fold and prolonged the half-life by approximately 3-fold. Concomitant use with moderate CYP1A2 inhibitors has not been evaluated, but is expected to have similar potential drug interactions.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alosetron and ethinyl estradiol unless clinically necessary due to the risk of increased plasma concentrations of alosetron. Alosetron is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor increased alosetron exposure by approximately 6-fold and prolonged the half-life by approximately 3-fold. Concomitant use with moderate CYP1A2 inhibitors has not been evaluated, but is expected to have similar potential drug interactions.
fentaNYL: (Major) Patients taking medications that decrease GI motility may be at greater risk for serious complications from alosetron, like constipation, via a pharmacodynamic interaction. Constipation is the most frequently reported adverse effect with alosetron. Alosetron, if used with drugs such as opiate agonists, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alosetron and fexinidazole unless clinically necessary due to the risk of increased plasma concentrations of alosetron. Alosetron is a CYP1A2 substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor increased alosetron exposure by approximately 6-fold and prolonged the half-life by approximately 3-fold. Concomitant use with moderate CYP1A2 inhibitors has not been evaluated, but is expected to have similar potential drug interactions.
flavoxATE: (Major) Concomitant use of alosetron and anticholinergics, which can decrease GI motility, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstuction, impaction, or paralytic ileus. Although specific recommendations are not available from the manufacturer, it would be prudent to avoid anticholinergics in patients taking alosetron.
fluPHENAZine: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like phenothiazines, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
fluvoxaMINE: (Contraindicated) The combined use of fluvoxamine and alosetron is contraindicated. Fluvoxamine has been shown to increase mean alosetron plasma concentrations (AUC) approximately 6-fold and prolong the half-life by approximately 3-fold. Elevated serum concentrations of alosetron may result in severe constipation. Fluvoxamine is a strong inhibitor of CYP1A2 and inhibits CYP3A and CYP2C9. Alosetron is primarily metabolized by CYP1A2 with minor contributions from CYP3A and CYP2C9.
Fosamprenavir: (Moderate) Fosamprenavir may inhibit the metabolism of other medications that are metabolized via cytochrome P450 3A4. Although drug interaction studies have not been conducted, the serum concentrations of alosetron may be increased with concomitant administration of fosamprenavir.
Fosphenytoin: (Minor) Hydantoin anticonvulsants induce hepatic microsomal enzymes and may increase the metabolism of aolsetron, leading to reduced efficacy of alosetron.
Givosiran: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alosetron and givosiran due to the risk of increased alosetron-related adverse reactions. If use is necessary, consider reducing the alosetron dose. Alosetron is a sensitive CYP1A2 substrate. Givosiran may moderately reduce hepatic CYP1A2 enzyme activity because of its pharmacological effects on the hepatic heme biosynthesis pathway. Coadministration with a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor increased alosetron exposure by approximately 6-fold and prolonged the half-life by approximately 3-fold. Concomitant use with moderate CYP1A2 inhibitors has not been evaluated, but is expected to have similar potential drug interactions.
Glycopyrrolate: (Major) Concomitant use of alosetron and anticholinergics, which can decrease GI motility, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstuction, impaction, or paralytic ileus. Although specific recommendations are not available from the manufacturer, it would be prudent to avoid anticholinergics in patients taking alosetron.
Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Major) Concomitant use of alosetron and anticholinergics, which can decrease GI motility, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstuction, impaction, or paralytic ileus. Although specific recommendations are not available from the manufacturer, it would be prudent to avoid anticholinergics in patients taking alosetron.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of alosetron and anticholinergics, which can decrease GI motility, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstuction, impaction, or paralytic ileus. Although specific recommendations are not available from the manufacturer, it would be prudent to avoid anticholinergics in patients taking alosetron. (Major) Patients taking medications that decrease GI motility may be at greater risk for serious complications from alosetron, like constipation, via a pharmacodynamic interaction. Constipation is the most frequently reported adverse effect with alosetron. Alosetron, if used with drugs such as opiate agonists, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Hydantoins: (Minor) Hydantoin anticonvulsants induce hepatic microsomal enzymes and may increase the metabolism of aolsetron, leading to reduced efficacy of alosetron.
hydrALAZINE: (Minor) Alosetron may inhibit the metabolism of drugs metabolized by N-acetyltransferase, such as hydralazine, however, this interaction has not been studied.
hydrALAZINE; Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Minor) Alosetron may inhibit the metabolism of drugs metabolized by N-acetyltransferase, such as hydralazine, however, this interaction has not been studied.
HYDROcodone: (Major) Patients taking medications that decrease GI motility may be at greater risk for serious complications from alosetron, like constipation, via a pharmacodynamic interaction. Constipation is the most frequently reported adverse effect with alosetron. Alosetron, if used with drugs such as opiate agonists, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Major) Patients taking medications that decrease GI motility may be at greater risk for serious complications from alosetron, like constipation, via a pharmacodynamic interaction. Constipation is the most frequently reported adverse effect with alosetron. Alosetron, if used with drugs such as opiate agonists, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
HYDROmorphone: (Major) Patients taking medications that decrease GI motility may be at greater risk for serious complications from alosetron, like constipation, via a pharmacodynamic interaction. Constipation is the most frequently reported adverse effect with alosetron. Alosetron, if used with drugs such as opiate agonists, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
hydrOXYzine: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like sedating H1 blockers, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Hyoscyamine: (Major) Concomitant use of alosetron and anticholinergics, which can decrease GI motility, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstuction, impaction, or paralytic ileus. Although specific recommendations are not available from the manufacturer, it would be prudent to avoid anticholinergics in patients taking alosetron.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Major) Concomitant use of alosetron and anticholinergics, which can decrease GI motility, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstuction, impaction, or paralytic ileus. Although specific recommendations are not available from the manufacturer, it would be prudent to avoid anticholinergics in patients taking alosetron.
Idelalisib: (Moderate) Coadministration of idelalisib and alosetron may increase alosetron concentrations resulting in alosetron-related adverse events. Idelalisib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and alosetron is a CYP3A substrate.
Imipramine: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like tricyclic antidepressants, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Isoniazid, INH: (Minor) Alosetron may inhibit the metabolism of drugs metabolized by N-acetyltransferase, such as isoniazid, INH, however, this interaction has not been studied.
Itraconazole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of alosetron with itraconazole may result in increased serum concentrations of alosetron and increase the risk for adverse reactions. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together. Alosetron is a substrate of hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; itraconazole is a strong inhibitor of this enzyme. In a study of healthy female subjects, another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased mean alosetron AUC by 29%.
Ketoconazole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of alosetron with ketoconazole may increase exposure of alosetron and increase the risk for adverse reactions. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together. Alosetron is partially metabolized by CYP3A4; ketoconazole is a strong CY3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of alosetron with ketoconazole increased mean alosetron expsure (AUC) by 29%.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of alosetron with clarithromycin may result in increased serum concentrations of alosetron and increase the risk for adverse reactions. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together. Alosetron is a substrate of hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; clarithromycin is a strong inhibitor of this enzyme. In a study of healthy female subjects, another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased mean alosetron AUC by 29%.
Leflunomide: (Moderate) Closely monitor for reduced efficacy of alosetron if coadministered with leflunomide. An adjustment of the alosetron dose may be required. Following oral administration, leflunomide is metabolized to an active metabolite, teriflunomide, which is responsible for essentially all of leflunomide's in vivo activity. In vivo data suggest that teriflunomide is a weak inducer of CYP1A2. Coadministration of teriflunomide with CYP1A2 substrates, such as alosetron, may decrease alosetron exposure and lead to a reduction in efficacy.
Letermovir: (Moderate) A clinically relevant increase in the plasma concentration of alosetron is not expected if coadministered with letermovir; however, in patients also receiving cyclosporine, the magnitude of the interaction may be increased. Alosetron is a CYP3A4 substrate. Letermovir is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; however, when given with cyclosporine, the combined effect on CYP3A4 substrates is similar to a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In a drug interaction study, concurrent administration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased mean alosetron plasma concentrations (AUC) by 29%.
Levoketoconazole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of alosetron with ketoconazole may increase exposure of alosetron and increase the risk for adverse reactions. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together. Alosetron is partially metabolized by CYP3A4; ketoconazole is a strong CY3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of alosetron with ketoconazole increased mean alosetron expsure (AUC) by 29%.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alosetron and ethinyl estradiol unless clinically necessary due to the risk of increased plasma concentrations of alosetron. Alosetron is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor increased alosetron exposure by approximately 6-fold and prolonged the half-life by approximately 3-fold. Concomitant use with moderate CYP1A2 inhibitors has not been evaluated, but is expected to have similar potential drug interactions.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alosetron and ethinyl estradiol unless clinically necessary due to the risk of increased plasma concentrations of alosetron. Alosetron is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor increased alosetron exposure by approximately 6-fold and prolonged the half-life by approximately 3-fold. Concomitant use with moderate CYP1A2 inhibitors has not been evaluated, but is expected to have similar potential drug interactions.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alosetron and ethinyl estradiol unless clinically necessary due to the risk of increased plasma concentrations of alosetron. Alosetron is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor increased alosetron exposure by approximately 6-fold and prolonged the half-life by approximately 3-fold. Concomitant use with moderate CYP1A2 inhibitors has not been evaluated, but is expected to have similar potential drug interactions.
Levorphanol: (Major) Patients taking medications that decrease GI motility may be at greater risk for serious complications from alosetron, like constipation, via a pharmacodynamic interaction. Constipation is the most frequently reported adverse effect with alosetron. Alosetron, if used with drugs such as opiate agonists, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Lonafarnib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of alosetron with lonafarnib may result in increased serum concentrations of alosetron and increase the risk for adverse reactions. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together. Alosetron is a substrate of hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; lonafarnib is a strong inhibitor of this enzyme. In a study of healthy female subjects, another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased mean alosetron AUC by 29%.
Loperamide: (Moderate) Use alosetron with caution and monitoring in patients taking additional medications that may reduce gastric motility, including antidiarrheals, due to increased risk for serious complications of constipation.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Use alosetron with caution and monitoring in patients taking additional medications that may reduce gastric motility, including antidiarrheals, due to increased risk for serious complications of constipation.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Concurrent administration of alosetron with ritonavir may alter alosetron plasma concentrations; however, the precise effect is undefined. Alosetron is metabolized by the hepatic isoenzymes CYP3A4, CYP2C9, and CYP1A2; ritonavir is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and an inducer of CYP1A2 and possibly CYP2C9. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are administered together.
Lubiprostone: (Moderate) Alosetron can decrease GI motility and may antagonize the effects of drugs used to treat constipation, such as lubiprostone. In general, it would be illogical to concurrently administer antidiarrheals in combination with lubiprostone. However, lubiprostone may cause diarrhea as a side effect, but drug discontinuation alone may resolve the diarrhea.
Meclizine: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like sedating H1 blockers, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Meperidine: (Major) Patients taking medications that decrease GI motility may be at greater risk for serious complications from alosetron, like constipation, via a pharmacodynamic interaction. Constipation is the most frequently reported adverse effect with alosetron. Alosetron, if used with drugs such as opiate agonists, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Methadone: (Major) Patients taking medications that decrease GI motility may be at greater risk for serious complications from alosetron, like constipation, via a pharmacodynamic interaction. Constipation is the most frequently reported adverse effect with alosetron. Alosetron, if used with drugs such as opiate agonists, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Methenamine; Sodium Acid Phosphate; Methylene Blue; Hyoscyamine: (Major) Concomitant use of alosetron and anticholinergics, which can decrease GI motility, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstuction, impaction, or paralytic ileus. Although specific recommendations are not available from the manufacturer, it would be prudent to avoid anticholinergics in patients taking alosetron.
Methscopolamine: (Major) Concomitant use of alosetron and anticholinergics, which can decrease GI motility, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstuction, impaction, or paralytic ileus. Although specific recommendations are not available from the manufacturer, it would be prudent to avoid anticholinergics in patients taking alosetron.
Metoclopramide: (Moderate) Although a potential interaction has not been studied, metoclopramide might negate the effect of alosetron. Pharmacodynamic interactions between alosetron and drugs that enhance peristalsis are theoretically possible, based on opposing pharmacologic outcomes. It may be prudent to avoid use of metoclopramide during alosetron treatment.
Mexiletine: (Major) Concomitant use of alosetron with mexiletine should be avoided due to the risk for increased alosetron serum concentrations and serious adverse reactions. Alosetron is metabolized by CYP1A2; mexiletine is a moderate inhibitor of this enzyme.
Mitotane: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and alosetron are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of alosetron and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and alosetron is a minor (18%) CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of alosetron.
Morphine: (Major) Patients taking medications that decrease GI motility may be at greater risk for serious complications from alosetron, like constipation, via a pharmacodynamic interaction. Constipation is the most frequently reported adverse effect with alosetron. Alosetron, if used with drugs such as opiate agonists, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Nefazodone: (Moderate) Alosetron is partially metabolized by CYP3A4. Nefazodone inhibits this enzyme and may decrease the metabolism of alosetron resulting in increased alosetron plasma concentrations. Coadministration of alosetron with nefazodone has not been studied.
Nelfinavir: (Moderate) Concomitant use of alosetron with nelfinavir may result in increased serum concentrations of alosetron and increase the risk for adverse reactions. Alosetron is partially metabolized by hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; nelfinavir is a strong inhibitor of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together.
Neostigmine; Glycopyrrolate: (Major) Concomitant use of alosetron and anticholinergics, which can decrease GI motility, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstuction, impaction, or paralytic ileus. Although specific recommendations are not available from the manufacturer, it would be prudent to avoid anticholinergics in patients taking alosetron.
Netupitant, Fosnetupitant; Palonosetron: (Major) Theoretically, the coadministration of two potent and selective 5HT-3 antagonists, such as palonosetron and alosetron could lead to severe constipation. Constipation, reported individually with alosetron in roughly 25% of patients, could be worsened by the administration of palonosetron, which has a constipation rate of roughly 5% as well as a long half-life. Patients who are debilitated, elderly or taking medications that decrease GI motility may be at greater risk for constipation. Ischemic colitis has been reported in patients receiving alosetron during clinical trials and post-marketing. If a decision is made to co-prescribe palonosetron and alosetron, the patient should be informed of the potential for worsening constipation and should contact their health care provider immediately. If severe constipation or ischemic colitis develops while taking these two drugs, the alosetron should be discontinued immediately and not re-started.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Concurrent administration of alosetron with ritonavir may alter alosetron plasma concentrations; however, the precise effect is undefined. Alosetron is metabolized by the hepatic isoenzymes CYP3A4, CYP2C9, and CYP1A2; ritonavir is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and an inducer of CYP1A2 and possibly CYP2C9. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are administered together.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alosetron and ethinyl estradiol unless clinically necessary due to the risk of increased plasma concentrations of alosetron. Alosetron is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor increased alosetron exposure by approximately 6-fold and prolonged the half-life by approximately 3-fold. Concomitant use with moderate CYP1A2 inhibitors has not been evaluated, but is expected to have similar potential drug interactions.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alosetron and ethinyl estradiol unless clinically necessary due to the risk of increased plasma concentrations of alosetron. Alosetron is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor increased alosetron exposure by approximately 6-fold and prolonged the half-life by approximately 3-fold. Concomitant use with moderate CYP1A2 inhibitors has not been evaluated, but is expected to have similar potential drug interactions.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alosetron and ethinyl estradiol unless clinically necessary due to the risk of increased plasma concentrations of alosetron. Alosetron is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor increased alosetron exposure by approximately 6-fold and prolonged the half-life by approximately 3-fold. Concomitant use with moderate CYP1A2 inhibitors has not been evaluated, but is expected to have similar potential drug interactions.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alosetron and ethinyl estradiol unless clinically necessary due to the risk of increased plasma concentrations of alosetron. Alosetron is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor increased alosetron exposure by approximately 6-fold and prolonged the half-life by approximately 3-fold. Concomitant use with moderate CYP1A2 inhibitors has not been evaluated, but is expected to have similar potential drug interactions.
Nortriptyline: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like tricyclic antidepressants, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Constipation is the most frequently reported adverse effect with alosetron. Alosetron, if used with drugs that have anticholinergic effects such as olanzapine, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus. Although specific recommendations are not available from the manufacturer, it would be prudent to avoid these drugs in patients taking alosetron.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Constipation is the most frequently reported adverse effect with alosetron. Alosetron, if used with drugs that have anticholinergic effects such as olanzapine, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus. Although specific recommendations are not available from the manufacturer, it would be prudent to avoid these drugs in patients taking alosetron.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Constipation is the most frequently reported adverse effect with alosetron. Alosetron, if used with drugs that have anticholinergic effects such as olanzapine, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus. Although specific recommendations are not available from the manufacturer, it would be prudent to avoid these drugs in patients taking alosetron.
Oliceridine: (Major) Patients taking medications that decrease GI motility may be at greater risk for serious complications from alosetron, like constipation, via a pharmacodynamic interaction. Constipation is the most frequently reported adverse effect with alosetron. Alosetron, if used with drugs such as opiate agonists, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Opiate Agonists: (Major) Patients taking medications that decrease GI motility may be at greater risk for serious complications from alosetron, like constipation, via a pharmacodynamic interaction. Constipation is the most frequently reported adverse effect with alosetron. Alosetron, if used with drugs such as opiate agonists, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like orphenadrine, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
oxyBUTYnin: (Major) Concomitant use of alosetron and anticholinergics, which can decrease GI motility, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstuction, impaction, or paralytic ileus. Although specific recommendations are not available from the manufacturer, it would be prudent to avoid anticholinergics in patients taking alosetron.
oxyCODONE: (Major) Patients taking medications that decrease GI motility may be at greater risk for serious complications from alosetron, like constipation, via a pharmacodynamic interaction. Constipation is the most frequently reported adverse effect with alosetron. Alosetron, if used with drugs such as opiate agonists, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
oxyMORphone: (Major) Patients taking medications that decrease GI motility may be at greater risk for serious complications from alosetron, like constipation, via a pharmacodynamic interaction. Constipation is the most frequently reported adverse effect with alosetron. Alosetron, if used with drugs such as opiate agonists, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Palonosetron: (Major) Theoretically, the coadministration of two potent and selective 5HT-3 antagonists, such as palonosetron and alosetron could lead to severe constipation. Constipation, reported individually with alosetron in roughly 25% of patients, could be worsened by the administration of palonosetron, which has a constipation rate of roughly 5% as well as a long half-life. Patients who are debilitated, elderly or taking medications that decrease GI motility may be at greater risk for constipation. Ischemic colitis has been reported in patients receiving alosetron during clinical trials and post-marketing. If a decision is made to co-prescribe palonosetron and alosetron, the patient should be informed of the potential for worsening constipation and should contact their health care provider immediately. If severe constipation or ischemic colitis develops while taking these two drugs, the alosetron should be discontinued immediately and not re-started.
Peginterferon Alfa-2b: (Major) Monitor for adverse effects, such as constipation, associated with increased exposure to alosetron if peginterferon alfa-2b is coadministered. Peginterferon alfa-2b is a CYP1A2 inhibitor, while alosetron is a CYP1A2 substrate.
Perphenazine: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like phenothiazines, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like phenothiazines, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus. (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like tricyclic antidepressants, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
PHENobarbital: (Minor) Alosetron is metabolized by CYP1A2 and CYP3A4. Phenobarbital can induce the activity of these enzymes and increase the metabolism of alosetron. Concomitant administration of phenobarbital and alosetron has not been evaluated.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Concomitant use of alosetron and anticholinergics, which can decrease GI motility, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstuction, impaction, or paralytic ileus. Although specific recommendations are not available from the manufacturer, it would be prudent to avoid anticholinergics in patients taking alosetron. (Minor) Alosetron is metabolized by CYP1A2 and CYP3A4. Phenobarbital can induce the activity of these enzymes and increase the metabolism of alosetron. Concomitant administration of phenobarbital and alosetron has not been evaluated.
Phenothiazines: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like phenothiazines, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Phenytoin: (Minor) Hydantoin anticonvulsants induce hepatic microsomal enzymes and may increase the metabolism of aolsetron, leading to reduced efficacy of alosetron.
Posaconazole: (Moderate) Posaconazole and alosetron should be coadministered with caution due to an increased potential for alosetron-related adverse events. Posaconazole is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4, an isoenzyme partially responsible for the metabolism of alosetron. These drugs used in combination may result in elevated alosetron plasma concentrations, causing an increased risk for alosetron-related adverse events.
Pramlintide: (Major) Due to its effects on gastric emptying, pramlintide should not be considered for patients taking medications that alter gastrointestinal motility (e.g., slow GI motility, such as alosetron). Consider alternative diabetic treatments. Patients using these medications have not been studied in pramlintide clinical trials. Severe constipation, which could result in bowel blockage, is a potential concern.
Primidone: (Minor) Alosetron is metabolized by CYP1A2 and CYP3A4. Primidone, which is metabolized to phenobarbital, can induce the activity of these enzymes and increase the metabolism of alosetron. Concomitant administration of these drugs has not been formally evaluated.
Procainamide: (Minor) Alosetron may inhibit the metabolism of drugs metabolized by N-acetyltransferase, such as procainamide, however, this interaction has not been studied.
Prochlorperazine: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like phenothiazines, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Promethazine: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like phenothiazines, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like phenothiazines, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like phenothiazines, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Protriptyline: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like tricyclic antidepressants, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like sedating H1 blockers, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
quiNINE: (Moderate) Alosetron is metabolized by hepatic cytochrome P450 enzymes. Inhibitors of these enzymes, such as quinine, may decrease the clearance of alosetron and increase the systemic exposure of alosetron. Clinically, increased systemic exposure to alosetron may cause or worsen constipation, which might lead to serious adverse effects.
Relacorilant: (Moderate) Concomitant use of alosetron with relacorilant may result in increased serum concentrations of alosetron and increase the risk for adverse reactions. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together. Alosetron is a substrate of hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A; relacorilant is a strong inhibitor of this enzyme. In a study of healthy female subjects, another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased mean alosetron AUC by 29%.
Remifentanil: (Major) Patients taking medications that decrease GI motility may be at greater risk for serious complications from alosetron, like constipation, via a pharmacodynamic interaction. Constipation is the most frequently reported adverse effect with alosetron. Alosetron, if used with drugs such as opiate agonists, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Ribociclib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of alosetron with ribociclib may result in increased serum concentrations of alosetron and increase the risk for adverse reactions. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together. Alosetron is a substrate of hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; ribociclib is a strong inhibitor of this enzyme. In a study of healthy female subjects, another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased mean alosetron AUC by 29%.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of alosetron with ribociclib may result in increased serum concentrations of alosetron and increase the risk for adverse reactions. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together. Alosetron is a substrate of hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; ribociclib is a strong inhibitor of this enzyme. In a study of healthy female subjects, another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased mean alosetron AUC by 29%.
Ritlecitinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alosetron and ritlecitinib unless clinically necessary due to the risk of increased plasma concentrations of alosetron. Alosetron is a CYP1A2 substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor increased alosetron exposure by approximately 6-fold and prolonged the half-life by approximately 3-fold. Concomitant use with moderate CYP1A2 inhibitors has not been evaluated, but is expected to have similar potential drug interactions.
Ritonavir: (Major) Concurrent administration of alosetron with ritonavir may alter alosetron plasma concentrations; however, the precise effect is undefined. Alosetron is metabolized by the hepatic isoenzymes CYP3A4, CYP2C9, and CYP1A2; ritonavir is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and an inducer of CYP1A2 and possibly CYP2C9. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are administered together.
Rucaparib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alosetron and rucaparib unless clinically necessary due to the risk of increased plasma concentrations of alosetron. Alosetron is a CYP1A2 substrate and rucaparib is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor increased alosetron exposure by approximately 6-fold and prolonged the half-life by approximately 3-fold. Concomitant use with moderate CYP1A2 inhibitors has not been evaluated, but is expected to have similar potential drug interactions.
Saquinavir: (Moderate) Concomitant use of alosetron with saquinavir may result in increased serum concentrations of alosetron and increase the risk for adverse reactions. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together. Alosetron is a substrate of hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; boosted saquinavir is a strong inhibitor of this enzyme. In a study of healthy female subjects, another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased mean alosetron AUC by 29%.
Scopolamine: (Major) Concomitant use of alosetron and anticholinergics, which can decrease GI motility, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstuction, impaction, or paralytic ileus. Although specific recommendations are not available from the manufacturer, it would be prudent to avoid anticholinergics in patients taking alosetron.
Sedating H1-blockers: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like sedating H1 blockers, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alosetron and ethinyl estradiol unless clinically necessary due to the risk of increased plasma concentrations of alosetron. Alosetron is a CYP1A2 substrate and ethinyl estradiol is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor increased alosetron exposure by approximately 6-fold and prolonged the half-life by approximately 3-fold. Concomitant use with moderate CYP1A2 inhibitors has not been evaluated, but is expected to have similar potential drug interactions.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Moderate) Alosetron is metabolized by hepatic cytochrome P450 enzymes CYP2C9, CYP3A4, and CYP1A2. Inducers of these enzymes, such as St. John's Wort, can reduce the systemic exposure to alosetron by increasing the metabolism of the drug.
Stiripentol: (Moderate) Consider a dose adjustment of alosetron when coadministered with stiripentol. Coadministration may alter plasma concentrations of alosetron resulting in an increased risk of adverse reactions and/or decreased efficacy. Alosetron is a sensitive CYP1A2 substrate. In vitro data predicts inhibition or induction of CYP1A2 by stiripentol potentially resulting in clinically significant interactions.
Streptogramins: (Moderate) Dalfopristin; quinupristin is a major inhibitor of cytochrome P450 3A4 and may decrease the elimination of drugs metabolized by this enzyme including alosetron.
SUFentanil: (Major) Patients taking medications that decrease GI motility may be at greater risk for serious complications from alosetron, like constipation, via a pharmacodynamic interaction. Constipation is the most frequently reported adverse effect with alosetron. Alosetron, if used with drugs such as opiate agonists, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Tapentadol: (Major) Patients taking medications that decrease GI motility may be at greater risk for serious complications from alosetron, like constipation, via a pharmacodynamic interaction. Constipation is the most frequently reported adverse effect with alosetron. Alosetron, if used with drugs such as opiate agonists, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Teriflunomide: (Moderate) Use caution when administering teriflunomide and alosetron concurrently. In vivo data suggest that teriflunomide is a weak inducer of CYP1A2. Coadministration of teriflunomide with CYP1A2 substrates, such as alosetron, may decrease alosetron exposure and lead to a reduction in efficacy.
Thioridazine: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like phenothiazines, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
traMADol: (Major) Patients taking medications that decrease GI motility may be at greater risk for serious complications from alosetron, like constipation, via a pharmacodynamic interaction. Constipation is the most frequently reported adverse effect with alosetron. Alosetron, if used with drugs such as opiate agonists, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Major) Patients taking medications that decrease GI motility may be at greater risk for serious complications from alosetron, like constipation, via a pharmacodynamic interaction. Constipation is the most frequently reported adverse effect with alosetron. Alosetron, if used with drugs such as opiate agonists, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like tricyclic antidepressants, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Trifluoperazine: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like phenothiazines, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Trihexyphenidyl: (Major) Concomitant use of alosetron and anticholinergics, which can decrease GI motility, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstuction, impaction, or paralytic ileus. Although specific recommendations are not available from the manufacturer, it would be prudent to avoid anticholinergics in patients taking alosetron.
Trimipramine: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like tricyclic antidepressants, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Triprolidine: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like sedating H1 blockers, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Trospium: (Major) Concomitant use of alosetron and trospium, an antimuscarinic which can decrease GI motility, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstuction, impaction, or paralytic ileus. Although specific recommendations are not available from the manufacturer, it would be prudent to avoid antimuscarinics in patients taking alosetron.
Tucatinib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of alosetron with tucatinib may result in increased serum concentrations of alosetron and increase the risk for adverse reactions. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together. Alosetron is a substrate of hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; tucatinib is a strong inhibitor of this enzyme. In a study of healthy female subjects, another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased mean alosetron AUC by 29%.
Vemurafenib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of vemurafenib and alosetron may result in altered concentrations of alosetron. Vemurafenib is an inhibitor of CYP1A2 and CYP2C9 and an inducer of CYP3A4. Alosetron is a substrate of CYP1A2, CYP2C9, and CYP3A4. Use caution and monitor patients for toxicity and efficacy.
Viloxazine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of viloxazine and alosetron is contraindicated due to the increased risk for alosetron-related adverse effects and exposure. Alosetron is a CYP1A2 substrate and viloxazine is a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP1A2 inhibitor increased the mean alosetron AUC by about 6-fold and prolonged the half-life by 3-fold.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of alosetron with clarithromycin may result in increased serum concentrations of alosetron and increase the risk for adverse reactions. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together. Alosetron is a substrate of hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; clarithromycin is a strong inhibitor of this enzyme. In a study of healthy female subjects, another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased mean alosetron AUC by 29%.
Voriconazole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of alosetron with voriconazole may result in increased serum concentrations of alosetron and increase the risk for adverse reactions. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together. Alosetron is a substrate of hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; voriconazole is a strong inhibitor of this enzyme. In a study of healthy female subjects, another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased mean alosetron AUC by 29%.
Xanomeline; Trospium: (Major) Concomitant use of alosetron and trospium, an antimuscarinic which can decrease GI motility, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstuction, impaction, or paralytic ileus. Although specific recommendations are not available from the manufacturer, it would be prudent to avoid antimuscarinics in patients taking alosetron.
Zafirlukast: (Minor) Alosetron is metabolized by hepatic cytochrome P450 enzymes CYP2C9, CYP3A4 and CYP1A2. Inhibitors of these enzymes, such as zafirlukast, may decrease the clearance of alosetron and increase the systemic exposure of alosetron. Clinically, increased systemic exposure to alosetron may cause or worsen constipation, which might lead to serious adverse effects.


Adverse Reaction
General Information

The clinical significance of reduced cortisol production due to alosetron is not known. In a study utilizing alosetron 1 mg PO twice a day for 4 days, there was a significant decrease in urinary 6-beta-hydroxycortisol; however, there was no change in ratio of 6-β-hydroxycortisol to cortisol, indicating a possible decrease in cortisol production.

abdominal pain, colitis, constipation, dyspepsia, flatulence, gastroesophageal reflux, GI bleeding, GI obstruction, GI perforation, hemorrhoids, ileus, infection, nausea, toxic megacolon, vomiting, xerostomia


Constipation is the most frequently reported gastrointestinal adverse reaction to alosetron therapy. Constipation was reported in 29% of patients treated with alosetron 1 mg PO twice daily during clinical studies. For most of these patients, constipation occurred within the first month (median 8 days) after beginning therapy and was mild to moderate in intensity and self-limited. In patients that initiated alosetron at a dose of 1 mg PO twice daily, about 11% withdrew from clinical studies secondary to constipation. Starting at a lower dosage may decrease the incidence of constipation. In patients that started alosetron at a dose of 0.5 mg PO twice daily, only about 11% of patients reported constipation and 4% withdrew from clinical trials secondary to constipation. Some cases of severe constipation have required hospitalization and surgery. Alosetron should not be restarted in patients who develop severe constipation. Serious complications of constipation have also been reported including GI obstruction, GI perforation, impaction, toxic megacolon, secondary ischemic colitis and death. Patients who are debilitated, elderly or taking medications that decrease GI motility may be at greater risk for constipation. Ischemic colitis has been reported in patients receiving alosetron during clinical trials and post-marketing. In clinical trials, the cumulative incidence of ischemic colitis was 2/1000 patients over a 3 month period, and 3/1000 patients over a 6 month period. Alosetron should be discontinued immediately and not resumed in patients who develop signs of ischemic colitis, such as GI bleeding, rectal bleeding, bloody diarrhea, blood in the stool (melena) or new or worsening abdominal pain. Ischemic colitis can be life-threatening and appropriate diagnostic and supportive measures should be instituted. Other adverse GI effects include abdominal distention, dyspepsia, flatulence, gastroesophageal reflux, hemorrhoids, ileus, nausea/vomiting, viral GI infections, ulcerative colitis and xerostomia.


hypertension, sinus tachycardia

Sinus tachycardia and other unspecified arrhythmias were infrequent or rare cardiovascular adverse events reported with alosetron (occurring in 1/100 to 1/1000 patients or < 1/1000 patients, respectively). Hypertension and extrasystoles were also rarely reported.

laryngitis

Adverse reactions to alosetron therapy affecting the ear, nose, and throat were rare and included viral and bacterial upper respiratory tract infection and laryngitis.

confusion, drowsiness, headache

Sleep disorders (unspecified) were the most common (>= 1%) neurologic adverse reactions. They were reported in 3% of alosetron-treated patients and 2% of placebo-treated patients. Drowsiness (defined as sedation), abnormal dreams, confusion and loss of memory and were also rarely reported. Headache has been reported from post-marketing experience.

anxiety, depression

During clinical evaluation of alosetron, anxiety was the most commonly reported (>= 1%) psychiatric adverse reaction. Depression was also rarely reported.

hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia

Endocrine and metabolic disorders were rarely reported with alosetron. Examples of these reactions included: disorders of calcium and phosphate metabolism, hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia, and fluid disturbances.

cholecystitis, elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatitis

Elevated hepatic enzymes (> 2 fold) were reported at a similar incidence in patients receiving alosetron or placebo (1% vs. 1.2%). One case of hepatitis (elevated ALT, AST, alkaline phosphatase, and bilirubin) without jaundice was reported in a 12-week study. A causal relationship to alosetron therapy has not been established. Other cases of abnormal bilirubin levels and cholecystitis were also rarely reported.

atopic dermatitis, folliculitis, rash (unspecified), urticaria

During clinical evaluation of alosetron, skin disorders were reported infrequently or rarely and included: acne/folliculitis, allergic skin reactions, atopic dermatitis, eczema, rash (unspecified), skin infections and urticaria.

alopecia, bone pain, cough, diuresis, dysgeusia, increased urinary frequency, menstrual irregularity, myalgia, photophobia, polyuria

Other adverse reactions to alosetron therapy occurring infrequently (1/100 to 1/1000 patients) or rarely (< 1/1000 patients) and affecting various organ systems include alopecia, allergic reaction, bone pain, breathing disorders, cough, diuresis, dysgeusia, menstrual irregularity, muscle pain (myalgia), photophobia, polyuria, sexual function disorders, unusual odors, increased urinary frequency and urinary tract infections.

Description

Alosetron is an oral selective serotonin 5-HT3 receptor antagonist. It is approved with restrictions for the treatment of women who exhibit severe diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome (IBS-D) and have failed conventional therapy. Efficacy in men has not been established. Guidelines recommend that alosetron be used to relieve global IBS-D symptoms in women with severe symptoms who have failed conventional therapy. Severe IBS occurs in less than 5% of female patients. In clinical studies, women with severe IBS-D (bowel urgency 50% of days or more) had significant increases (13% to 16%) in the median percentage of days with urgency control vs. placebo; a retrospective analysis of the data concurred that alosetron had a beneficial effect on control of bowel urgency in these patients. In June 2002, alosetron was re-introduced to the marketplace after an almost 2-year voluntary marketing hiatus due to reports of ischemic colitis with the use of the drug, via a supplemental NDA containing the following restrictions after further FDA specialty committee review: alosetron is only for use in women with severe diarrhea-predominant IBS who have not benefited from previous traditional medications; use a lower starting dose than previously recommended (1 mg/day); and, a Boxed Warning on the prescribing label was included. These events, including ischemic colitis and serious complications of constipation, have resulted in hospitalization, and rarely, blood transfusion, surgery, and death. Discontinue alosetron immediately in patients who develop constipation or symptoms of ischemic colitis.

Mechanism Of Action

Alosetron is a potent and selective antagonist at serotonin 5-HT3 receptors which are nonselective cation channels. 5-HT3 receptors are extensively distributed on enteric neurons in the human gastrointestinal (GI) tract, as well as other peripheral and central locations. Antagonism at these receptors in the GI tract modulate the regulation of visceral pain, colonic transit, and GI secretions. Patients with irritable bowel syndrome have visceral hypersensitivity and hyperactivity of the GI tract, which lead to abnormal sensations of pain and motor activity. Following distention of the rectum, patients with IBS exhibit pain and discomfort at lower volumes than patients with normal bowel activity. Administration of alosetron to patients with IBS reduces pain and attenuates exaggerated motor responses, possibly through antagonism at 5-HT3 receptors. In clinical trials often utilizing higher doses than those currently approved, alosetron increased colonic transit time without affecting orocecal transit time. Basal jejunal water and sodium absorption were also increased. Single oral doses of alosetron have produced a dose-dependent reduction in the flare response seen after an intradermal injection of serotonin.

Pharmacokinetics

Alosetron is administered orally. It is extensively metabolized in the liver, however, the biological activity of the metabolites is unknown. In vitro data suggest that cytochrome P450 enzyme metabolism accounts for roughly 58% (30%-CYP2C9; 18%-CYP3A4; and 10%-CYP1A2) of an administered dose. Non-CYP metabolism accounts for roughly 11% of the dose. However, in vivo data suggest that CYP1A2 metabolism accounts for 62—97% of the clearance. Based on radiolabeled studies, at least 13 metabolites have been detected in urine with the predominant one being a 6-hydroxy metabolite (15% of the dose) which was secondarily metabolized to a glucuronide metabolite (14% of the dose). Smaller amounts of both metabolites also were present in the feces. One other metabolite, a bis-oxidized dicarbonyl, accounted for 14% of an administered dose. No other urinary metabolite accounted for more than 4% of the dosage. Additionally, an N-desmethyl metabolite was found in the plasma of all Japanese men studied and accounted for up to 30% of the dose in one subject when alosetron was administered with food. The clinical significance of the metabolites is not known; although only the bis-oxidized dicarbonyl metabolite is likely to exert any pharmacological activity (approximately 10-fold less potent than alosetron). Plasma radioactivity declined with a half-life 2-fold longer than alosetron, indicating that circulating metabolites were present. Approximately 74% of an administered dose is excreted in urine and 11% in feces. Only 1% of the drug has been recovered in the feces as unchanged drug. Renal elimination of unchanged drug accounts for only 13% of the dose. The terminal elimination half-life of alosetron is roughly 1.5 hours.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP2C9, CYP3A4, CYP1A2, N-acetyltransferase
In vitro and in vivo data suggest that it is unlikely that alosetron will inhibit the hepatic metabolic clearance of other drugs metabolized by these enzymes. Further, these data also suggest that other hepatic enzymes (e.g., CYP2D6, CYP2C19, or CYP2E1) are not inhibited by alosetron. It may inhibit the metabolism of drugs metabolized by N-acetyltransferase (e.g., isoniazid, INH; hydralazine; procainamide), however, this interaction has not been studied. Alosetron does not appear to induce the CYP3A family of enzymes, CYP2E1 or CYP2C19. It is not known if alosetron could induce other isozymes.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route

Following administration, it is rapidly absorbed with a mean absolute bioavailability of about 50—60%. Peak plasma concentrations occur in 1 hour; higher peak plasma concentrations occur in young women (9 ng/mL) as compared to young men (5 ng/mL). Administration with food decreases absorption by about 25% with a mean delay in time to peak concentration of 15 minutes. Alosetron is distributed throughout the body and plasma protein binding is 82% over a concentration range of 20 to 4000 ng/mL.
 
An N-desmethyl metabolite was found in the plasma of all Japanese men studied and accounted for up to 30% of the dose in one subject when alosetron was administered with food.

Hepatic Impairment

Alosetron and its metabolites undergo extensive hepatic metabolism; increased systemic exposure is likely to occur in patients with hepatic impairment. In a female with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh score > 9), alosetron exposure was approximately 14-fold higher compared to healthy females; in a female with moderate to severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh score 7—9), exposure was approximately 1.6-fold higher compared to healthy females.

Renal Impairment

Renal impairment has not been shown to affect the renal elimination of alosetron; however, the effects of renal impairment on the kinetics of the metabolites have not been assessed. No studies have been performed in patients with end-stage renal disease.

Geriatric

Plasma concentrations of alosetron have been shown to be elevated up to 40% in elderly patients compared to younger patients; this effect was not consistently observed in men.

Gender Differences

Alosetron concentrations have been shown to be 27% lower in men versus women; with peak plasma concentrations of 5 ng/mL in men versus 9 ng/mL in women.

Ethnic Differences

An N-desmethyl metabolite was found in the plasma of all Japanese men studied and accounted for up to 30% of the dose in one subject when alosetron was administered with food. 

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Oral Administration

Tablets
May be administered with or without food.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

2 mg/day PO.

Geriatric

2 mg/day PO.

Adolescents

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Children

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

Alosetron Hydrochloride 0.5mg Oral tablet

Alosetron Hydrochloride 1mg Oral tablet

Lotronex 0.5mg Tablet

Lotronex 1mg Tablet

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Alosetron should not be used in patients with severe hepatic impairment (see Contraindications). Use with caution in patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment, increased systemic exposure is likely to occur and reduced dosages may be advisable, although quantitative guidelines are not available.

Renal Impairment

It is not known if dosage adjustment is required in patients with renal impairment; use with caution.

© 2026 Elsevier