=== Alclometasone — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 1181)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Alclometasone is a topical low-to-medium potency synthetic corticosteroid.

Routes: topical; Common adult doses: Maximum dosage information not available.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): acneiform rash, erythema, folliculitis, hypertrichosis, infection, maculopapular rash, miliaria, pruritus, purpura, skin atrophy, skin hypopigmentation, skin irritation, striae, telangiectasia, xerosis, cataracts, ocular hypertension, visual impairment

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Topical corticosteroids such as alclometasone should be used with caution in patients with diabetes mellitus. Exacerbation of diabetes may occur with systemic absorption of the topical corticosteroid.

ALCLOMETASONE

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Aclovate

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses, including atopic dermatitis, localized vitiligo, eczema, phimosis, lichen planus, and localized bullous pemphigoid

Topical dosage
Adults


Apply a thin layer topically to the affected skin area(s) 2 to 3 times daily. If no response is seen within 2 weeks, reassess treatment options.


Children and Adolescents


Apply a thin layer topically to the affected skin area(s) 2 to 3 times daily. If no response is seen within 2 weeks, reassess treatment options.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

diabetes mellitus


Manifestations of hyperglycemia can be produced in some patients by systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids while on treatment. Topical corticosteroids such as alclometasone should be used with caution in patients with diabetes mellitus. Exacerbation of diabetes may occur with systemic absorption of the topical corticosteroid. Use of topical corticosteroids may further delay healing of skin ulcers in diabetic patients.


Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. It is possible, though also rare, that patients hypersensitive to alclometasone will display cross-hypersensitivity to other corticosteroids. It is advisable that patients who have a hypersensitivity reaction to any corticosteroid undergo skin testing to determine if hypersensitivity to another corticosteroid exists and should be carefully monitored following the administration of any corticosteroid.

pregnancy


There are no adequate and well-controlled studies of topical application of alclometasone during pregnancy. Topical corticosteroids, including alclometasone, should not be used in large amounts, on large areas, or for prolonged periods of time in pregnant women. Guidelines recommend mild to moderate potency agents over potent corticosteroids, which should be used in short durations. Fetal growth restriction and a significantly increased risk of low birthweight has been reported with use of potent or very potent topical corticosteroids during the third trimester, particularly when using more than 300 grams. Corticosteroids are generally teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels. The more potent corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application in laboratory animals.


Treatment-Related Restrictions of Use

Alclometasone dipropionate cream or ointment should not be used in the treatment of diaper dermatitis.

breast-feeding


According to the manufacturer, it is not known whether topical administration of alclometasone could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in breast milk during breast-feeding. However, most dermatologists stress that topical corticosteroids can be safely used during lactation. If applied topically, care should be used to ensure the infant will not come into direct contact with the area of application, such as the breast. Increased blood pressure has been reported in an infant whose mother applied a high potency topical corticosteroid ointment directly to the nipples. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the risk of potential infant drug exposure, and the risk of an untreated or inadequately treated condition. If a breast-feeding infant experiences an adverse effect related to a maternally ingested drug, healthcare providers are encouraged to report the adverse effect to the FDA.  


Pregnancy And Lactation


There are no adequate and well-controlled studies of topical application of alclometasone during pregnancy. Topical corticosteroids, including alclometasone, should not be used in large amounts, on large areas, or for prolonged periods of time in pregnant women. Guidelines recommend mild to moderate potency agents over potent corticosteroids, which should be used in short durations. Fetal growth restriction and a significantly increased risk of low birthweight has been reported with use of potent or very potent topical corticosteroids during the third trimester, particularly when using more than 300 grams. Corticosteroids are generally teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels. The more potent corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application in laboratory animals.


Interactions

Deferasirox: (Moderate) Because gastric ulceration and GI bleeding have been reported in patients taking deferasirox, use caution when coadministering with other drugs known to increase the risk of peptic ulcers or gastric hemorrhage including corticosteroids.
metyraPONE: (Major) Medications which affect pituitary or adrenocortical function, including all corticosteroid therapy, should be discontinued prior to and during testing with metyrapone. Patients taking inadvertent doses of corticosteroids on the test day may exhibit abnormally high basal plasma cortisol levels and a decreased response to the test. Although systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids is minimal, temporary discontinuation of these products should be considered if possible to reduce the potential for interference with the test results.


Adverse Reaction
acneiform rash, erythema, folliculitis, hypertrichosis, infection, maculopapular rash, miliaria, pruritus, purpura, skin atrophy, skin hypopigmentation, skin irritation, striae, telangiectasia, xerosis


The following adverse reactions (listed in decreasing order of occurrence) are reported with topical corticosteroids such as alclometasone and may occur more often when used with an occlusive dressing: skin irritation (including burning, 1—2%), pruritus (1—2%), xerosis (dry skin, 2%), folliculitis, hypertrichosis, acneiform rash/eruptions, skin hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, maceration of the skin, secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae, and miliaria. Erythema (1—2%),telangiectasia, purpura, and maculopapular rash (2%) may also occur. Although skin atrophy usually occurs after prolonged use of alclometasone, this effect may occur even with short-term use of alclometasone on intertriginous or flexor areas, or on the face. If irritation develops, discontinue topical corticosteroids and institute appropriate therapy. The anti-inflammatory activity of topical corticosteroids may also mask manifestations of infection. In the presence of dermatological infections, institute the use of an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent. If a favorable response does not promptly occur, discontinue the corticosteroid until the infection has been adequately controlled.[


withdrawal


Signs and symptoms of corticosteroid withdrawal may occur with alclometasone dose reduction or discontinuation, and supplemental systemic corticosteroids may be needed. For example, disease flare may occur and HPA axis suppression may be present.


adrenocortical insufficiency, Cushing's syndrome, glycosuria, growth inhibition, headache, hyperglycemia, hypertension, hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) suppression, increased intracranial pressure, papilledema, pseudotumor cerebri


Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids can produce reversible hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) suppression with possible adrenocortical insufficiency after withdrawal of treatment. In some individuals, systemic absorption can produce manifestations of Cushing syndrome, hypertension, hyperglycemia, and glycosuria. Percutaneous absorption of alclometasone is dependent on many factors including the vehicle, the integrity of the epidermal barrier, duration of use, and use of an occlusive dressing. HPA axis suppression was suggested by about a 10% decrease in average plasma and urinary free cortisol levels and urinary levels of 17-hydroxysteroids in adults who received the cream to 30% of their body twice daily for 7 days with or without occlusive dressings and in individuals who received the cream to 80% of their body twice daily for 21 days with daily 12-hour periods of whole body occlusion. HPA axis suppression and increased intracranial pressure have been reported in children receiving topical corticosteroids. Manifestations of adrenocortical insufficiency in children include linear growth inhibition, delayed weight gain, low plasma cortisol concentrations, and absence of response to ACTH stimulation. Clinical signs of increased intracranial pressure include bulging fontanelles, headache, and bilateral papilledema (i.e., pseudotumor cerebri). Plasma cortisol levels have been shown to decrease in pediatric individuals treated twice daily for 3 weeks without occlusive dressings. Also, pediatric individuals applying alclometasone dipropionate cream to more than 20% of the body surface area are at higher risk for HPA axis suppression. Children may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity from equivalent doses due to their larger skin surface to body mass ratios. Individuals applying alclometasone to a large surface area or to areas under occlusion should be evaluated periodically for evidence of HPA axis suppression (using the ACTH stimulation test and urinary free cortisol test). To minimize risk of HPA axis suppression, discontinue therapy when control is achieved. If no improvement is seen within 2 weeks, reassessment of diagnosis may be necessary. If HPA axis suppression is noted, an attempt should be made to withdraw the drug, reduce the frequency of application, or substitute a less potent corticosteroid. Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt and complete upon discontinuation of the topical corticosteroid.


cataracts, ocular hypertension, visual impairment


Case reports describe visual impairment in patients using topical corticosteroids for eczema of the face. The visual impairment was secondary to the onset of ocular hypertension. Such adverse effects, if they occur, could lead to blindness. Cataracts have also been reported, usually with large doses or therapy > 6 months. Any patient who develops changes in vision during topical corticosteroid therapy, such as alclometasone, should be evaluated for ocular hypertension. Low potency corticosteroids (e.g., hydrocortisone, dexamethasone) have been reported to be safer for short-term use around the eye area.


impaired wound healing, skin ulcer


In general, excessive use of corticosteroids can lead to impaired wound healing. Alclometasone should not be applied directly on or near healing wounds. Skin ulcer may develop in patients with markedly impaired circulation who use topical corticosteroids.


tolerance


Tolerance may occur with the prolonged use of topical corticosteroids such as alclometasone. Tolerance is usually described as a decreased acute vasoconstrictive response to the agent after a period of days to weeks. This may explain the dramatic responses noted initially by patients early in topical corticosteroid treatment and an apparent diminished response with time. Tolerance is reversible and may be attenuated by interrupted or cyclic schedules of application (e.g., alclometasone is given twice daily for 2—3 weeks, followed by a 1-week intermission).


contact dermatitis


Allergic contact dermatitis with corticosteroids such as alclometasone is usually diagnosed by observing a failure to heal. Appropriate diagnostic patch testing may help with the diagnosis.


Description

Alclometasone is a topical low-to-medium potency synthetic corticosteroid. It is used to relieve the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses. Low-potency topical corticosteroids have modest antiinflammatory properties and are usually effective in treating acute inflammatory conditions involving areas of thin skin. Since the stratum corneum is thin on the face and intertriginous areas, low-potency topical corticosteroids are preferred. Low potency topical corticosteroids are also considered the safest for chronic use and are favored in elderly or pediatric patients. Alclometasone is equivalent in efficacy to desonide and hydrocortisone. Alclometasone ointment has been shown to be at least as effective as hydrocortisone 1% for the treatment of eczema in children. The FDA approved alclometasone in 1982.

Mechanism Of Action

Mechanism of Action: Topical corticosteroids exhibit anti-inflammatory, antipruritic, and vasoconstrictive properties. At the cellular level, corticosteroids induce peptides called lipocortins. Lipocortins antagonize phospholipase A2, an enzyme which causes the breakdown of leukocyte lysosomal membranes to release arachidonic acid. This action decreases the subsequent formation and release of endogenous inflammatory mediators including prostaglandins, kinins, histamine, liposomal enzymes and the complement system. Early anti-inflammatory effects of topical corticosteroids include the inhibition of macrophage and leukocyte movement and activity in the inflamed area by reversing vascular dilation and permeability. Later inflammatory processes such as capillary production, collagen deposition, keloid (scar) formation also are inhibited by corticosteroids. Clinically, these actions correspond to decreased edema, erythema, pruritus, plaque formation and scaling of the affected skin.

Pharmacokinetics

Alclometasone is applied topically as a cream or ointment. Once in the systemic circulation, alclometasone is metabolized in the liver, but systemic metabolism has not been fully quantified. After hepatic metabolism, alclometasone metabolites are excreted by the kidney.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Topical Route

The extent of percutaneous absorption of the topical corticosteroids is dependent on many factors, including the pharmaceutical vehicle and the integrity of the epidermis. In normal volunteers, approximately 3% of the alclometasone dose is absorbed during 8 hours of contact with intact skin. Absorption after topical application of alclometasone is increased in areas that have skin damage, inflammation, or occlusion, or in areas where the stratum corneum is thin such as the eyelids, genitalia, axillae, and face. The use of occlusive dressings with the application of alclometasone enhances penetration into the skin, and may increase the chance of systemic absorption. Ointments have a hydrating effect, are lipophilic, and enhance the penetration of alclometasone into the skin. Because alclometasone contains a substituted 17-hydroxyl group, it is not metabolized in the skin. Repeated application results in a cumulative depot effect in the skin, which may lead to a prolonged duration of action and increased systemic absorption. Circulating levels of alclometasone are normally below the level of detection.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Topical Administration


For topical dermatologic use only. Not for ophthalmic, oral, or intravaginal use. Avoid contact with the eyes. Not for use on face, groin, or axillae unless medically directed.
Apply a thin film to the affected area and rub in gently but completely.
The treated area should not be bandaged, covered, or wrapped in any way that may be occlusive unless medically directed.
Do not apply to the diaper area of patients who require diapers or plastic pants, as these garments may constitute an occlusive dressing and increase the risk of toxicity.
Occlusive dressings may be used for the management of refractory or chronic dermatoses or more severe conditions under medical supervision.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

Maximum dosage information not available.

Elderly

Maximum dosage information not available.

Adolescents

Maximum dosage information not available.

Children

Do not exceed 3 weeks of treatment.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

Alclometasone Dipropionate 0.05% Topical cream

Alclometasone Dipropionate 0.05% Topical ointment

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

Renal Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

© 2026 Elsevier