=== Ulipristal (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 3703)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Ulipristal is a progesterone agonist/antagonist emergency contraceptive.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 30 mg PO single dose for emergency postcoital contraception. If the patient vomits within 3 hours of first dose, a second 30 mg dose may be given; limit use to 1 course of treatment during any given menstrual cycle.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): dizziness, fatigue, headache, breakthrough bleeding, dysmenorrhea, menstrual irregularity, acne vulgaris, angioedema, pruritus, rash, urticaria

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Ulipristal should not replace a regular method of contraception. Hazardous drug: NIOSH 2024 List: Table 2

Brand Names
  - ella

Dosage Forms
  - ella 30mg Tablet
  - ella 30mg Tablet
  - ella 30mg Tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adult and Adolescent females
        Dosage Description
        30 mg (1 tablet) PO as soon as possible within 120 hours (5 days) of unprotected intercourse or a known or suspected contraceptive failure. If vomiting occurs within 3 hours of taking the tablet, consider repeating the dose. May administer at any time during the menstrual cycle. Safety and efficacy of repeat use within the same cycle has not been evaluated. Ulipristal is not intended for routine contraception and does not replace the need for routine contraception. After ulipristal use, initiate or resume hormonal contraception no sooner than 5 days after the intake of ulipristal and use a reliable barrier method until the next menstrual period. For known or suspected failure of hormonal contraception, refer to the hormonal contraceptive's prescribing information.
    Heading
    For postcoital contraception after unprotected intercourse or a known or suspected contraceptive failure
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adult females
        Dosage Description
        5 or 10 mg PO once daily for up to 3 months was studied in a double blind noninferiority trial. In the PEARL II trial, patients eligible for fibroid surgery were randomly assigned to 5 or 10 mg ulipristal PO once daily or 3.75 mg leuprolide IM once monthly. Following 13 weeks of treatment, both 5 and 10 mg daily doses of ulipristal were non-inferior to leuprolide (within a prespecified -20% margin) in controlling uterine bleeding. In addition, ulipristal was less likely to cause hot flashes than leuprolide. Surgical rates and types of surgery were similar across the treatment groups. Ulipristal 5 mg PO once daily was previously approved in Europe for the pre-operative treatment of moderate to severe symptoms of uterine fibroids in adult women of reproductive age. Therapy was initiated during the first week of a menstrual cycle and did not exceed 3 months. However, in July 2024, the European Commission withdrew the marketing authorization for Esmya (ulipristal acetate) in the European Union (EU) at the manufacturer's request.
    Heading
    For the treatment of uterine leiomyoma† (uterine fibroids)

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    Ulipristal should not replace a regular method of contraception. Repeated use of ulipristal within the same menstrual cycle is not recommended, as safety and efficacy of repeat use within the same cycle has not been evaluated.
Like other hormonal contraceptives, individuals should be reminded that ulipristal does not protect against the transmission of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection, the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), or other sexually transmitted diseases or infections.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Ulipristal is contraindicated for use during an existing or suspected pregnancy and is not indicated for termination of an existing pregnancy. No signal of concern regarding pregnancy complications was found in postmarketing studies. Isolated cases of major malformations in ulipristal-exposed pregnancies were identified; however, the data are not sufficient to determine a risk for birth defects with inadvertent use of ulipristal during pregnancy. Miscarriage was reported in 14% of the known pregnancy outcomes; a rate that is similar to the U.S. background rate for miscarriage. Known pregnancy outcomes were available for 462 of 784 pregnancies in which subjects received ulipristal at doses of 30 mg or greater during the conception cycle or during pregnancy. Data of pregnancies with known outcome were analyzed prospectively for 272 cases and retrospectively for 190 cases. Pregnancy outcomes included 302 elective abortions (2 for fetal anomalies, including 1 with trisomy 21), 63 spontaneous abortions, and 13 ectopic pregnancies. No maternal or fetal deaths were reported. 84 pregnancies continued until birth, with congenital anomalies reported in 5 infants, including 4 major malformations (2 of the 4 with genetic syndromes). The data indicated that ulipristal-exposed pregnancies were not associated with a pattern of increased risk of adverse outcomes. In animal reproduction studies, no malformations were observed during repeated administration of ulipristal acetate to pregnant rats, rabbits and monkeys at daily drug exposures one-third, one-half, and 3 times respectively, the human exposure at a dose of 30 mg. A follow-up physical or pelvic examination is recommended if there is any doubt regarding the general health or pregnancy status of a person taking ulipristal.
    Headline
    people who may become pregnant
    General Information
    A rapid return of fertility is likely following intake of ulipristal. Suggested contraception requirements are outlined in the manufacturer label. Counsel people who may become pregnant that after use of ulipristal, a reliable barrier method of contraception should be used with subsequent acts of intercourse until the next menstrual period. After using ulipristal, if the patient wishes to initiate or resume hormonal routine contraception, they can do so no sooner than 5 days after ulipristal treatment. The individual should use a reliable barrier method until the next menstrual period. Progestin-containing contraceptives may impair the ability of ulipristal to delay ovulation. Advise patients to follow the instructions on the initiation or resumption of hormonal contraceptives after ulipristal intake. Minor menstrual irregularity may occur in the next menses following treatment with ulipristal; menses may occur a few days earlier or later than expected. In clinical trials, cycle length was increased by a mean of 2.5 days but returned to normal in the subsequent cycle. Some subjects studied reported intermenstrual bleeding after use of ulipristal. If there is a delay in the onset of expected menstruation beyond 1 week, testing should be conducted to ensure the individual is not pregnant.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Ulipristal is considered to be likely compatible with breast-feeding and no interruption of breast-feeding is considered necessary after taking a single dose for post-coital emergency contraception. There is no clinical data regarding the effect on breastfed infants or on milk production, but the amount of ulipristal and the active metabolite excreted in breast milk is small. While no formal studies have addressed infant outcomes, there are no published reports of associated harm with ulipristal emergency contraception, and it is reasonable to continue breast-feeding without interruption if desired. Ulipristal emergency contraception is acceptable during breastfeeding when needed as there are no absolute medical contraindications to use, even though there are no published data available regarding effects on the breastfed infant or child.  Ulipristal is highly-protein bound which limits its distribution to the breast milk, and single-doses do not result in drug accumulation when used for emergency contraception. Based on the levels of ulipristal and active metabolite measured in breast milk, a fully breastfed child would only receive a weight-adjusted dosage of approximately 0.8% of ulipristal acetate and monodemethyl-ulipristal acetate on Day 1 of drug administration and an approximate total exposure to 1% of the maternal dose over a 5-day period after drug administration. The breast milk of 12 lactating women following ulipristal administration was collected in 24-hour increments over 5 days to measure the concentrations of ulipristal acetate and the active metabolite monodemethyl-ulipristal acetate. The mean daily concentrations of ulipristal acetate in breast milk, at the highest and lowest, were 22.7 ng/mL (0 to 24 hours) and 0.69 ng/mL (96 to 120 hours) respectively; concentrations of monodemethyl-ulipristal acetate ranged from 4.49 ng/mL (0 to 24 hours) and 0.10 ng/mL (96 to 120 hours). Emergency contraception agents such as oral levonorgestrel and the copper intrauterine device (IUD) are also compatible with breast-feeding; some experts consider levonorgestrel a preferred oral emergency contraceptive due to the availability of more data in lactating individuals.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Ulipristal is contraindicated for use during an existing or suspected pregnancy and is not indicated for termination of an existing pregnancy. No signal of concern regarding pregnancy complications was found in postmarketing studies. Isolated cases of major malformations in ulipristal-exposed pregnancies were identified; however, the data are not sufficient to determine a risk for birth defects with inadvertent use of ulipristal during pregnancy. Miscarriage was reported in 14% of the known pregnancy outcomes; a rate that is similar to the U.S. background rate for miscarriage. Known pregnancy outcomes were available for 462 of 784 pregnancies in which subjects received ulipristal at doses of 30 mg or greater during the conception cycle or during pregnancy. Data of pregnancies with known outcome were analyzed prospectively for 272 cases and retrospectively for 190 cases. Pregnancy outcomes included 302 elective abortions (2 for fetal anomalies, including 1 with trisomy 21), 63 spontaneous abortions, and 13 ectopic pregnancies. No maternal or fetal deaths were reported. 84 pregnancies continued until birth, with congenital anomalies reported in 5 infants, including 4 major malformations (2 of the 4 with genetic syndromes). The data indicated that ulipristal-exposed pregnancies were not associated with a pattern of increased risk of adverse outcomes. In animal reproduction studies, no malformations were observed during repeated administration of ulipristal acetate to pregnant rats, rabbits and monkeys at daily drug exposures one-third, one-half, and 3 times respectively, the human exposure at a dose of 30 mg. A follow-up physical or pelvic examination is recommended if there is any doubt regarding the general health or pregnancy status of a person taking ulipristal.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Ulipristal is considered to be likely compatible with breast-feeding and no interruption of breast-feeding is considered necessary after taking a single dose for post-coital emergency contraception. There is no clinical data regarding the effect on breastfed infants or on milk production, but the amount of ulipristal and the active metabolite excreted in breast milk is small. While no formal studies have addressed infant outcomes, there are no published reports of associated harm with ulipristal emergency contraception, and it is reasonable to continue breast-feeding without interruption if desired. Ulipristal emergency contraception is acceptable during breastfeeding when needed as there are no absolute medical contraindications to use, even though there are no published data available regarding effects on the breastfed infant or child.  Ulipristal is highly-protein bound which limits its distribution to the breast milk, and single-doses do not result in drug accumulation when used for emergency contraception. Based on the levels of ulipristal and active metabolite measured in breast milk, a fully breastfed child would only receive a weight-adjusted dosage of approximately 0.8% of ulipristal acetate and monodemethyl-ulipristal acetate on Day 1 of drug administration and an approximate total exposure to 1% of the maternal dose over a 5-day period after drug administration. The breast milk of 12 lactating women following ulipristal administration was collected in 24-hour increments over 5 days to measure the concentrations of ulipristal acetate and the active metabolite monodemethyl-ulipristal acetate. The mean daily concentrations of ulipristal acetate in breast milk, at the highest and lowest, were 22.7 ng/mL (0 to 24 hours) and 0.69 ng/mL (96 to 120 hours) respectively; concentrations of monodemethyl-ulipristal acetate ranged from 4.49 ng/mL (0 to 24 hours) and 0.10 ng/mL (96 to 120 hours). Emergency contraception agents such as oral levonorgestrel and the copper intrauterine device (IUD) are also compatible with breast-feeding; some experts consider levonorgestrel a preferred oral emergency contraceptive due to the availability of more data in lactating individuals.

Interactions
Adagrasib: (Minor) Concomitant use of ulipristal and adagrasib may increase the plasma concentration of ulipristal resulting in an increased risk for ulipristal-related adverse events; however, this is not likely to be significant for single-dose emergency contraceptive use. Ulipristal is a CYP3A substrate and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ulipristal overall exposure by 5.9-fold and increased the overall exposure if ulipristal's active metabolite, monodemethyl-ulipristal acetate, by 2.4-fold.
Amobarbital: (Major) Avoid administration of ulipristal with drugs that induce CYP3A4. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and barbiturates (such as phenobarbital or primidone) are CYP3A4 inducers. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Minor) Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and clarithromycin is a CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may increase the plasma concentration of ulipristal resulting in an increased risk for adverse events.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid administration of ulipristal with drugs that induce CYP3A4. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and apalutamide is a CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal.
Armodafinil: (Major) Avoid administration of ulipristal with drugs that induce CYP3A4. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and armodafinil is a CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid administration of ulipristal with drugs that induce CYP3A4. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and barbiturates (such as phenobarbital or primidone) are CYP3A4 inducers. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal.
Atazanavir: (Minor) Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and atazanavir is a CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may increase the plasma concentration of ulipristal resulting in an increased risk for adverse events.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Minor) Concomitant use of ulipristal and cobicistat may increase the plasma concentration of ulipristal resulting in an increased risk for ulipristal-related adverse events; however, this is not likely to be significant for single-dose emergency contraceptive use. Ulipristal is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ulipristal overall exposure by 5.9-fold and increased the overall exposure if ulipristal's active metabolite, monodemethyl-ulipristal acetate, by 2.4-fold. (Minor) Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and atazanavir is a CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may increase the plasma concentration of ulipristal resulting in an increased risk for adverse events.
Barbiturates: (Major) Avoid administration of ulipristal with drugs that induce CYP3A4. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and barbiturates (such as phenobarbital or primidone) are CYP3A4 inducers. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal.
Bexarotene: (Major) Avoid administration of ulipristal with drugs that induce CYP3A4. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and bexarotene is a CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal.
Bosentan: (Major) Avoid administration of ulipristal with drugs that induce CYP3A4. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and bosentan is a CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Avoid administration of ulipristal with drugs that induce CYP3A4. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and barbiturates (such as phenobarbital or primidone) are CYP3A4 inducers. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid administration of ulipristal with drugs that induce CYP3A4. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and barbiturates (such as phenobarbital or primidone) are CYP3A4 inducers. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid administration of ulipristal with drugs that induce CYP3A4. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and barbiturates (such as phenobarbital or primidone) are CYP3A4 inducers. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid administration of ulipristal with drugs that induce CYP3A4. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and barbiturates (such as phenobarbital or primidone) are CYP3A4 inducers. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Avoid administration of ulipristal with drugs that induce CYP3A4. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and carbamazepine is a CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal.
Cenobamate: (Major) Avoid administration of ulipristal with drugs that induce CYP3A4. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and cenobamate is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal.
Ceritinib: (Minor) Concomitant use of ulipristal and ceritinib may increase the plasma concentration of ulipristal resulting in an increased risk for ulipristal-related adverse events; however, this is not likely to be significant for single-dose emergency contraceptive use. Ulipristal is a CYP3A substrate and ceritinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ulipristal overall exposure by 5.9-fold and increased the overall exposure if ulipristal's active metabolite, monodemethyl-ulipristal acetate, by 2.4-fold.
Chloramphenicol: (Minor) Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and chloramphenicol is a CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may increase the plasma concentration of ulipristal resulting in an increased risk for adverse events.
Clarithromycin: (Minor) Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and clarithromycin is a CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may increase the plasma concentration of ulipristal resulting in an increased risk for adverse events.
cloBAZam: (Moderate) Clobazam is a weak CYP3A4 inducer. As ulipristal is metabolized by CYP3A4, its effectiveness may be diminished when given with clobazam. Strong CYP3A4 inducers should be avoided with ulipristal. Monitor the patient for the desired clinical effect if ulipristal must be administered to a patient taking clobazam.
Cobicistat: (Minor) Concomitant use of ulipristal and cobicistat may increase the plasma concentration of ulipristal resulting in an increased risk for ulipristal-related adverse events; however, this is not likely to be significant for single-dose emergency contraceptive use. Ulipristal is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ulipristal overall exposure by 5.9-fold and increased the overall exposure if ulipristal's active metabolite, monodemethyl-ulipristal acetate, by 2.4-fold.
Conjugated Estrogens; medroxyPROGESTERone: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ulipristal and progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives or other progestins. Hormonal contraceptives may be started or resumed no sooner than 5 days after ulipristal treatment. Also, a reliable barrier method of contraception should be used during the same menstrual cycle in which ulipristal was administered (until the next menstrual period). Progestin-containing contraceptives may impair the ability of ulipristal to delay ovulation. Ulipristal may reduce the effectiveness of progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives by competitively binding at the progesterone receptor.
Dabrafenib: (Major) Avoid administration of ulipristal with drugs that induce CYP3A4. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and dabrafenib is a CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use is expected to decrease the plasma concentration of ulipristal and may decrease its effectiveness.
Darunavir: (Minor) Concomitant use of ulipristal and darunavir may increase the plasma concentration of ulipristal resulting in an increased risk for ulipristal-related adverse events; however, this is not likely to be significant for single-dose emergency contraceptive use. Ulipristal is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ulipristal overall exposure by 5.9-fold and increased the overall exposure if ulipristal's active metabolite, monodemethyl-ulipristal acetate, by 2.4-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Minor) Concomitant use of ulipristal and cobicistat may increase the plasma concentration of ulipristal resulting in an increased risk for ulipristal-related adverse events; however, this is not likely to be significant for single-dose emergency contraceptive use. Ulipristal is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ulipristal overall exposure by 5.9-fold and increased the overall exposure if ulipristal's active metabolite, monodemethyl-ulipristal acetate, by 2.4-fold. (Minor) Concomitant use of ulipristal and darunavir may increase the plasma concentration of ulipristal resulting in an increased risk for ulipristal-related adverse events; however, this is not likely to be significant for single-dose emergency contraceptive use. Ulipristal is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ulipristal overall exposure by 5.9-fold and increased the overall exposure if ulipristal's active metabolite, monodemethyl-ulipristal acetate, by 2.4-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Minor) Concomitant use of ulipristal and cobicistat may increase the plasma concentration of ulipristal resulting in an increased risk for ulipristal-related adverse events; however, this is not likely to be significant for single-dose emergency contraceptive use. Ulipristal is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ulipristal overall exposure by 5.9-fold and increased the overall exposure if ulipristal's active metabolite, monodemethyl-ulipristal acetate, by 2.4-fold. (Minor) Concomitant use of ulipristal and darunavir may increase the plasma concentration of ulipristal resulting in an increased risk for ulipristal-related adverse events; however, this is not likely to be significant for single-dose emergency contraceptive use. Ulipristal is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ulipristal overall exposure by 5.9-fold and increased the overall exposure if ulipristal's active metabolite, monodemethyl-ulipristal acetate, by 2.4-fold.
Deferasirox: (Moderate) Deferasirox is a weak CYP3A4 inducer. As ulipristal is metabolized by CYP3A4, its effectiveness may be diminished when given with deferasirox. Strong CYP3A4 inducers should be avoided with ulipristal. Monitor the patient for the desired clinical effect if ulipristal must be administered to a patient taking deferasirox.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ulipristal and progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives or other progestins. Hormonal contraceptives may be started or resumed no sooner than 5 days after ulipristal treatment. Also, a reliable barrier method of contraception should be used during the same menstrual cycle in which ulipristal was administered (until the next menstrual period). Progestin-containing contraceptives may impair the ability of ulipristal to delay ovulation. Ulipristal may reduce the effectiveness of progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives by competitively binding at the progesterone receptor.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ulipristal and progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives or other progestins. Hormonal contraceptives may be started or resumed no sooner than 5 days after ulipristal treatment. Also, a reliable barrier method of contraception should be used during the same menstrual cycle in which ulipristal was administered (until the next menstrual period). Progestin-containing contraceptives may impair the ability of ulipristal to delay ovulation. Ulipristal may reduce the effectiveness of progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives by competitively binding at the progesterone receptor.
dexAMETHasone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ulipristal with dexamethasone. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A and dexamethasone is a CYP3A inducer.
Dienogest; Estradiol valerate: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ulipristal and progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives or other progestins. Hormonal contraceptives may be started or resumed no sooner than 5 days after ulipristal treatment. Also, a reliable barrier method of contraception should be used during the same menstrual cycle in which ulipristal was administered (until the next menstrual period). Progestin-containing contraceptives may impair the ability of ulipristal to delay ovulation. Ulipristal may reduce the effectiveness of progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives by competitively binding at the progesterone receptor.
Dronedarone: (Minor) Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and dronedarone is a CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may increase the plasma concentration of ulipristal resulting in an increased risk for adverse events.
Drospirenone: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ulipristal and progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives or other progestins. Hormonal contraceptives may be started or resumed no sooner than 5 days after ulipristal treatment. Also, a reliable barrier method of contraception should be used during the same menstrual cycle in which ulipristal was administered (until the next menstrual period). Progestin-containing contraceptives may impair the ability of ulipristal to delay ovulation. Ulipristal may reduce the effectiveness of progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives by competitively binding at the progesterone receptor.
Drospirenone; Estetrol: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ulipristal and progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives or other progestins. Hormonal contraceptives may be started or resumed no sooner than 5 days after ulipristal treatment. Also, a reliable barrier method of contraception should be used during the same menstrual cycle in which ulipristal was administered (until the next menstrual period). Progestin-containing contraceptives may impair the ability of ulipristal to delay ovulation. Ulipristal may reduce the effectiveness of progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives by competitively binding at the progesterone receptor.
Drospirenone; Estradiol: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ulipristal and progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives or other progestins. Hormonal contraceptives may be started or resumed no sooner than 5 days after ulipristal treatment. Also, a reliable barrier method of contraception should be used during the same menstrual cycle in which ulipristal was administered (until the next menstrual period). Progestin-containing contraceptives may impair the ability of ulipristal to delay ovulation. Ulipristal may reduce the effectiveness of progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives by competitively binding at the progesterone receptor.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ulipristal and progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives or other progestins. Hormonal contraceptives may be started or resumed no sooner than 5 days after ulipristal treatment. Also, a reliable barrier method of contraception should be used during the same menstrual cycle in which ulipristal was administered (until the next menstrual period). Progestin-containing contraceptives may impair the ability of ulipristal to delay ovulation. Ulipristal may reduce the effectiveness of progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives by competitively binding at the progesterone receptor.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ulipristal and progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives or other progestins. Hormonal contraceptives may be started or resumed no sooner than 5 days after ulipristal treatment. Also, a reliable barrier method of contraception should be used during the same menstrual cycle in which ulipristal was administered (until the next menstrual period). Progestin-containing contraceptives may impair the ability of ulipristal to delay ovulation. Ulipristal may reduce the effectiveness of progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives by competitively binding at the progesterone receptor.
Efavirenz: (Major) Avoid administration of ulipristal with drugs that induce CYP3A4. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and efavirenz is a CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid administration of ulipristal with drugs that induce CYP3A4. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and efavirenz is a CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid administration of ulipristal with drugs that induce CYP3A4. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and efavirenz is a CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal.
Elafibranor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ulipristal with elafibranor. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A and elafibranor is a CYP3A inducer.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ulipristal and progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives or other progestins. Hormonal contraceptives may be started or resumed no sooner than 5 days after ulipristal treatment. Also, a reliable barrier method of contraception should be used during the same menstrual cycle in which ulipristal was administered (until the next menstrual period). Progestin-containing contraceptives may impair the ability of ulipristal to delay ovulation. Ulipristal may reduce the effectiveness of progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives by competitively binding at the progesterone receptor.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Minor) Concomitant use of ulipristal and cobicistat may increase the plasma concentration of ulipristal resulting in an increased risk for ulipristal-related adverse events; however, this is not likely to be significant for single-dose emergency contraceptive use. Ulipristal is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ulipristal overall exposure by 5.9-fold and increased the overall exposure if ulipristal's active metabolite, monodemethyl-ulipristal acetate, by 2.4-fold.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Minor) Concomitant use of ulipristal and cobicistat may increase the plasma concentration of ulipristal resulting in an increased risk for ulipristal-related adverse events; however, this is not likely to be significant for single-dose emergency contraceptive use. Ulipristal is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ulipristal overall exposure by 5.9-fold and increased the overall exposure if ulipristal's active metabolite, monodemethyl-ulipristal acetate, by 2.4-fold.
Enasidenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ulipristal with enasidenib. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A and enasidenib is a CYP3A inducer.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ulipristal with encorafenib. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A and encorafenib is a CYP3A inducer.
Ensitrelvir: (Minor) Concomitant use of ulipristal and ensitrelvir may increase the plasma concentration of ulipristal resulting in an increased risk for ulipristal-related adverse events; however, this is not likely to be significant for single-dose emergency contraceptive use. Ulipristal is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ulipristal overall exposure by 5.9-fold and increased the overall exposure if ulipristal's active metabolite, monodemethyl-ulipristal acetate, by 2.4-fold.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ulipristal with enzalutamide due to decreased plasma concentrations of ulipristal. Ulipristal is a CYP3A4 substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased ulipristal exposure by 93%, while exposure to monodemethyl-ulipristal acetate decreased by 90%.
Eslicarbazepine: (Major) Avoid administration of ulipristal with drugs that induce CYP3A4. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and eslicarbazepine is a CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal.
Estradiol; Levonorgestrel: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ulipristal and progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives or other progestins. Hormonal contraceptives may be started or resumed no sooner than 5 days after ulipristal treatment. Also, a reliable barrier method of contraception should be used during the same menstrual cycle in which ulipristal was administered (until the next menstrual period). Progestin-containing contraceptives may impair the ability of ulipristal to delay ovulation. Ulipristal may reduce the effectiveness of progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives by competitively binding at the progesterone receptor.
Estradiol; Norethindrone: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ulipristal and progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives or other progestins. Hormonal contraceptives may be started or resumed no sooner than 5 days after ulipristal treatment. Also, a reliable barrier method of contraception should be used during the same menstrual cycle in which ulipristal was administered (until the next menstrual period). Progestin-containing contraceptives may impair the ability of ulipristal to delay ovulation. Ulipristal may reduce the effectiveness of progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives by competitively binding at the progesterone receptor.
Estradiol; Norgestimate: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ulipristal and progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives or other progestins. Hormonal contraceptives may be started or resumed no sooner than 5 days after ulipristal treatment. Also, a reliable barrier method of contraception should be used during the same menstrual cycle in which ulipristal was administered (until the next menstrual period). Progestin-containing contraceptives may impair the ability of ulipristal to delay ovulation. Ulipristal may reduce the effectiveness of progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives by competitively binding at the progesterone receptor.
Estradiol; Progesterone: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ulipristal and progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives or other progestins. Hormonal contraceptives may be started or resumed no sooner than 5 days after ulipristal treatment. Also, a reliable barrier method of contraception should be used during the same menstrual cycle in which ulipristal was administered (until the next menstrual period). Progestin-containing contraceptives may impair the ability of ulipristal to delay ovulation. Ulipristal may reduce the effectiveness of progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives by competitively binding at the progesterone receptor.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ulipristal and progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives or other progestins. Hormonal contraceptives may be started or resumed no sooner than 5 days after ulipristal treatment. Also, a reliable barrier method of contraception should be used during the same menstrual cycle in which ulipristal was administered (until the next menstrual period). Progestin-containing contraceptives may impair the ability of ulipristal to delay ovulation. Ulipristal may reduce the effectiveness of progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives by competitively binding at the progesterone receptor.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ulipristal and progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives or other progestins. Hormonal contraceptives may be started or resumed no sooner than 5 days after ulipristal treatment. Also, a reliable barrier method of contraception should be used during the same menstrual cycle in which ulipristal was administered (until the next menstrual period). Progestin-containing contraceptives may impair the ability of ulipristal to delay ovulation. Ulipristal may reduce the effectiveness of progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives by competitively binding at the progesterone receptor.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ulipristal and progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives or other progestins. Hormonal contraceptives may be started or resumed no sooner than 5 days after ulipristal treatment. Also, a reliable barrier method of contraception should be used during the same menstrual cycle in which ulipristal was administered (until the next menstrual period). Progestin-containing contraceptives may impair the ability of ulipristal to delay ovulation. Ulipristal may reduce the effectiveness of progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives by competitively binding at the progesterone receptor.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ulipristal and progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives or other progestins. Hormonal contraceptives may be started or resumed no sooner than 5 days after ulipristal treatment. Also, a reliable barrier method of contraception should be used during the same menstrual cycle in which ulipristal was administered (until the next menstrual period). Progestin-containing contraceptives may impair the ability of ulipristal to delay ovulation. Ulipristal may reduce the effectiveness of progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives by competitively binding at the progesterone receptor.
Etonogestrel: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ulipristal and progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives or other progestins. Hormonal contraceptives may be started or resumed no sooner than 5 days after ulipristal treatment. Also, a reliable barrier method of contraception should be used during the same menstrual cycle in which ulipristal was administered (until the next menstrual period). Progestin-containing contraceptives may impair the ability of ulipristal to delay ovulation. Ulipristal may reduce the effectiveness of progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives by competitively binding at the progesterone receptor.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ulipristal and progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives or other progestins. Hormonal contraceptives may be started or resumed no sooner than 5 days after ulipristal treatment. Also, a reliable barrier method of contraception should be used during the same menstrual cycle in which ulipristal was administered (until the next menstrual period). Progestin-containing contraceptives may impair the ability of ulipristal to delay ovulation. Ulipristal may reduce the effectiveness of progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives by competitively binding at the progesterone receptor.
Etravirine: (Major) Avoid administration of ulipristal with drugs that induce CYP3A4. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and etravirine is a CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ulipristal with fexinidazole. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A and fexinidazole is a CYP3A inducer.
Flutamide: (Moderate) Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and flutamide is a CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal.
fluvoxaMINE: (Minor) Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and fluvoxamine is a CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may increase the plasma concentration of ulipristal resulting in an increased risk for adverse events.
Fosamprenavir: (Minor) Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and fosamprenavir is a CYP3A4 inhibitor, and may be a CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use may increase the plasma concentration of ulipristal. With single doses of ulipristal for emergency contraception it is not clear this interaction will have clinical consequence. The potential for interaction has not been studied.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ulipristal with fosphenytoin. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and fosphenytoin is a CYP3A4 inducer.
Glycerol Phenylbutyrate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ulipristal with glycerol phenylbutyrate. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A and glycerol phenylbutyrate is a CYP3A inducer.
Griseofulvin: (Major) Avoid administration of ulipristal with drugs that induce CYP3A4. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and griseofulvin is a CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal.
Idelalisib: (Moderate) Use of ulipristal and idelalisib may increase the plasma concentration of ulipristal but is not likely to be significant for single-dose emergency contraceptive use. Avoid idelalisib if ulipristal is given chronically for hormonal conditions. Concomitant use of ulipristal, a CYP3A4 substrate and idelalisib, a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor may increase the plasma concentration of ulipristal resulting in an increased risk for ulipristal-related adverse events.
Imatinib: (Minor) Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and imatinib, STI-571 is a CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may increase the plasma concentration of ulipristal resulting in an increased risk for adverse events.
Itraconazole: (Minor) Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and itraconazole is a CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may increase the plasma concentration of ulipristal resulting in an increased risk for adverse events.
Ivosidenib: (Major) Consider alternative methods of contraception in patients receiving ivosidenib. Coadministration may decrease the concentrations of hormonal contraceptives.
Ketoconazole: (Minor) Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and ketoconazole is a CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may increase the plasma concentration of ulipristal resulting in an increased risk for adverse events.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Minor) Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and clarithromycin is a CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may increase the plasma concentration of ulipristal resulting in an increased risk for adverse events.
Letermovir: (Moderate) An increase in the plasma concentration of ulipristal may occur if given with letermovir. In patients who are also receiving treatment with cyclosporine, the magnitude of this interaction may be amplified. Ulipristal is predominately metabolized by CYP3A4. Letermovir is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; however, when given with cyclosporine, the combined effect on CYP3A4 substrates may be similar to a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In a drug interaction study, concurrent administration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the maximum plasma concentration (Cmax) and exposure (AUC) of ulipristal by 2- and 5.9-fold, respectively; while the AUC of monodemethyl-ulipristal acetate increased by 2.4-fold and the Cmax decreased by 47%.
Levoketoconazole: (Minor) Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and ketoconazole is a CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may increase the plasma concentration of ulipristal resulting in an increased risk for adverse events.
Levonorgestrel: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ulipristal and progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives or other progestins. Hormonal contraceptives may be started or resumed no sooner than 5 days after ulipristal treatment. Also, a reliable barrier method of contraception should be used during the same menstrual cycle in which ulipristal was administered (until the next menstrual period). Progestin-containing contraceptives may impair the ability of ulipristal to delay ovulation. Ulipristal may reduce the effectiveness of progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives by competitively binding at the progesterone receptor.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ulipristal and progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives or other progestins. Hormonal contraceptives may be started or resumed no sooner than 5 days after ulipristal treatment. Also, a reliable barrier method of contraception should be used during the same menstrual cycle in which ulipristal was administered (until the next menstrual period). Progestin-containing contraceptives may impair the ability of ulipristal to delay ovulation. Ulipristal may reduce the effectiveness of progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives by competitively binding at the progesterone receptor.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ulipristal and progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives or other progestins. Hormonal contraceptives may be started or resumed no sooner than 5 days after ulipristal treatment. Also, a reliable barrier method of contraception should be used during the same menstrual cycle in which ulipristal was administered (until the next menstrual period). Progestin-containing contraceptives may impair the ability of ulipristal to delay ovulation. Ulipristal may reduce the effectiveness of progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives by competitively binding at the progesterone receptor.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ulipristal and progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives or other progestins. Hormonal contraceptives may be started or resumed no sooner than 5 days after ulipristal treatment. Also, a reliable barrier method of contraception should be used during the same menstrual cycle in which ulipristal was administered (until the next menstrual period). Progestin-containing contraceptives may impair the ability of ulipristal to delay ovulation. Ulipristal may reduce the effectiveness of progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives by competitively binding at the progesterone receptor.
Lonafarnib: (Minor) Concomitant use of ulipristal and lonafarnib may increase the plasma concentration of ulipristal resulting in an increased risk for ulipristal-related adverse events; however, this is not likely to be significant for single-dose emergency contraceptive use. Ulipristal is a CYP3A substrate and lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ulipristal overall exposure by 5.9-fold and increased the overall exposure if ulipristal's active metabolite, monodemethyl-ulipristal acetate, by 2.4-fold.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Use of ulipristal and ritonavir may increase the plasma concentration of ulipristal but is not likely to be significant for emergency contraceptive use. Avoid ritonavir if ulipristal is given chronically for hormonal conditions. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and ritonavir is a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor and in chronic use, may induce CYP3A4. Use together is likely to increase ulipristal concentrations overall, which may increase the risk for ulipristal-related adverse reactions.
Lorlatinib: (Major) Do not administer ulipristal with lorlatinib due to decreased plasma concentrations of ulipristal. Ulipristal is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use may significantly decrease ulipristal exposure.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ulipristal with lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a CYP3A inducer.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ulipristal with lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a CYP3A inducer.
Mavacamten: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ulipristal with mavacamten. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer.
medroxyPROGESTERone: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ulipristal and progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives or other progestins. Hormonal contraceptives may be started or resumed no sooner than 5 days after ulipristal treatment. Also, a reliable barrier method of contraception should be used during the same menstrual cycle in which ulipristal was administered (until the next menstrual period). Progestin-containing contraceptives may impair the ability of ulipristal to delay ovulation. Ulipristal may reduce the effectiveness of progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives by competitively binding at the progesterone receptor.
Meropenem: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ulipristal with meropenem. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A and meropenem is a CYP3A inducer.
Meropenem; Vaborbactam: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ulipristal with meropenem. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A and meropenem is a CYP3A inducer.
Methohexital: (Major) Avoid administration of ulipristal with drugs that induce CYP3A4. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and barbiturates (such as phenobarbital or primidone) are CYP3A4 inducers. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal.
Mitapivat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ulipristal with mitapivat. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A and mitapivat is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Mitotane: (Major) Avoid administration of ulipristal with drugs that induce CYP3A4. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and mitotane is a CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal.
Modafinil: (Major) Avoid administration of ulipristal with drugs that induce CYP3A4. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and modafinil is a CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal.
Nefazodone: (Minor) Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and nefazodone is a CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may increase the plasma concentration of ulipristal resulting in an increased risk for adverse events.
Nelfinavir: (Minor) Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and nelfinavir is a CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may increase the plasma concentration of ulipristal resulting in an increased risk for adverse events.
Nevirapine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ulipristal with nevirapine. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A and nevirapine is a CYP3A inducer.
NiCARdipine: (Minor) Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and nicardipine is a CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may increase the plasma concentration of ulipristal resulting in an increased risk for adverse events.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Use of ulipristal and ritonavir may increase the plasma concentration of ulipristal but is not likely to be significant for emergency contraceptive use. Avoid ritonavir if ulipristal is given chronically for hormonal conditions. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and ritonavir is a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor and in chronic use, may induce CYP3A4. Use together is likely to increase ulipristal concentrations overall, which may increase the risk for ulipristal-related adverse reactions.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ulipristal and progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives or other progestins. Hormonal contraceptives may be started or resumed no sooner than 5 days after ulipristal treatment. Also, a reliable barrier method of contraception should be used during the same menstrual cycle in which ulipristal was administered (until the next menstrual period). Progestin-containing contraceptives may impair the ability of ulipristal to delay ovulation. Ulipristal may reduce the effectiveness of progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives by competitively binding at the progesterone receptor.
Norethindrone: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ulipristal and progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives or other progestins. Hormonal contraceptives may be started or resumed no sooner than 5 days after ulipristal treatment. Also, a reliable barrier method of contraception should be used during the same menstrual cycle in which ulipristal was administered (until the next menstrual period). Progestin-containing contraceptives may impair the ability of ulipristal to delay ovulation. Ulipristal may reduce the effectiveness of progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives by competitively binding at the progesterone receptor.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ulipristal and progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives or other progestins. Hormonal contraceptives may be started or resumed no sooner than 5 days after ulipristal treatment. Also, a reliable barrier method of contraception should be used during the same menstrual cycle in which ulipristal was administered (until the next menstrual period). Progestin-containing contraceptives may impair the ability of ulipristal to delay ovulation. Ulipristal may reduce the effectiveness of progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives by competitively binding at the progesterone receptor.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ulipristal and progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives or other progestins. Hormonal contraceptives may be started or resumed no sooner than 5 days after ulipristal treatment. Also, a reliable barrier method of contraception should be used during the same menstrual cycle in which ulipristal was administered (until the next menstrual period). Progestin-containing contraceptives may impair the ability of ulipristal to delay ovulation. Ulipristal may reduce the effectiveness of progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives by competitively binding at the progesterone receptor.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ulipristal and progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives or other progestins. Hormonal contraceptives may be started or resumed no sooner than 5 days after ulipristal treatment. Also, a reliable barrier method of contraception should be used during the same menstrual cycle in which ulipristal was administered (until the next menstrual period). Progestin-containing contraceptives may impair the ability of ulipristal to delay ovulation. Ulipristal may reduce the effectiveness of progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives by competitively binding at the progesterone receptor.
Norgestrel: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ulipristal and progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives or other progestins. Hormonal contraceptives may be started or resumed no sooner than 5 days after ulipristal treatment. Also, a reliable barrier method of contraception should be used during the same menstrual cycle in which ulipristal was administered (until the next menstrual period). Progestin-containing contraceptives may impair the ability of ulipristal to delay ovulation. Ulipristal may reduce the effectiveness of progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives by competitively binding at the progesterone receptor.
Olutasidenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ulipristal with olutasidenib. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A and olutasidenib is a CYP3A inducer.
Omaveloxolone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ulipristal with omaveloxolone. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid administration of ulipristal with drugs that induce CYP3A4. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and rifabutin is a CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use is expected to decrease the plasma concentration of ulipristal and may decrease its effectiveness.
OXcarbazepine: (Major) Avoid administration of ulipristal with drugs that induce CYP3A4. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and oxcarbazepine is a CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal.
Pacritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ulipristal with pacritinib. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A and pacritinib is a CYP3A inducer.
PENTobarbital: (Major) Avoid administration of ulipristal with drugs that induce CYP3A4. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and barbiturates (such as phenobarbital or primidone) are CYP3A4 inducers. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Avoid administration of ulipristal with drugs that induce CYP3A4. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and barbiturates (such as phenobarbital or primidone) are CYP3A4 inducers. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid administration of ulipristal with drugs that induce CYP3A4. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and barbiturates (such as phenobarbital or primidone) are CYP3A4 inducers. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Major) Avoid administration of ulipristal with drugs that induce CYP3A4. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and topiramate is a mild CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal.
Phenytoin: (Major) Avoid administration of ulipristal with drugs that induce CYP3A4. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and phenytoin is a CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal.
Posaconazole: (Minor) Concomitant use of ulipristal and posaconazole may increase the plasma concentration of ulipristal resulting in an increased risk for ulipristal-related adverse events; however, this is not likely to be significant for single-dose emergency contraceptive use. Ulipristal is a CYP3A substrate and posaconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ulipristal overall exposure by 5.9-fold and increased the overall exposure if ulipristal's active metabolite, monodemethyl-ulipristal acetate, by 2.4-fold.
Primidone: (Major) Avoid administration of ulipristal with drugs that induce CYP3A4. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and barbiturates (such as phenobarbital or primidone) are CYP3A4 inducers. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal.
Progesterone: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ulipristal and progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives or other progestins. Hormonal contraceptives may be started or resumed no sooner than 5 days after ulipristal treatment. Also, a reliable barrier method of contraception should be used during the same menstrual cycle in which ulipristal was administered (until the next menstrual period). Progestin-containing contraceptives may impair the ability of ulipristal to delay ovulation. Ulipristal may reduce the effectiveness of progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives by competitively binding at the progesterone receptor.
Progestins: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ulipristal and progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives or other progestins. Hormonal contraceptives may be started or resumed no sooner than 5 days after ulipristal treatment. Also, a reliable barrier method of contraception should be used during the same menstrual cycle in which ulipristal was administered (until the next menstrual period). Progestin-containing contraceptives may impair the ability of ulipristal to delay ovulation. Ulipristal may reduce the effectiveness of progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives by competitively binding at the progesterone receptor.
Relacorilant: (Minor) Concomitant use of ulipristal and relacorilant may increase the plasma concentration of ulipristal resulting in an increased risk for ulipristal-related adverse events; however, this is not likely to be significant for single-dose emergency contraceptive use. Ulipristal is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ulipristal overall exposure by 5.9-fold and increased the overall exposure if ulipristal's active metabolite, monodemethyl-ulipristal acetate, by 2.4-fold.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ulipristal and progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives or other progestins. Hormonal contraceptives may be started or resumed no sooner than 5 days after ulipristal treatment. Also, a reliable barrier method of contraception should be used during the same menstrual cycle in which ulipristal was administered (until the next menstrual period). Progestin-containing contraceptives may impair the ability of ulipristal to delay ovulation. Ulipristal may reduce the effectiveness of progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives by competitively binding at the progesterone receptor.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ulipristal with repotrectinib. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A and repotrectinib is a CYP3A inducer.
Ribociclib: (Minor) Concomitant use of ulipristal and ribociclib may increase the plasma concentration of ulipristal resulting in an increased risk for ulipristal-related adverse events; however, this is not likely to be significant for single-dose emergency contraceptive use. Ulipristal is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ulipristal overall exposure by 5.9-fold and increased the overall exposure if ulipristal's active metabolite, monodemethyl-ulipristal acetate, by 2.4-fold.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Minor) Concomitant use of ulipristal and ribociclib may increase the plasma concentration of ulipristal resulting in an increased risk for ulipristal-related adverse events; however, this is not likely to be significant for single-dose emergency contraceptive use. Ulipristal is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ulipristal overall exposure by 5.9-fold and increased the overall exposure if ulipristal's active metabolite, monodemethyl-ulipristal acetate, by 2.4-fold.
Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid administration of ulipristal with drugs that induce CYP3A4. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and rifabutin is a CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use is expected to decrease the plasma concentration of ulipristal and may decrease its effectiveness.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid use of rifampin with ulipristal. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and rifampin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use decreases the plasma concentration of ulipristal significantly and may decrease its effectiveness. When a single 30-mg dose of ulipristal acetate was administered following administration of rifampin 600 mg/day for 9 days, the Cmax and AUC of ulipristal acetate decreased by 90% and 93% respectively. The Cmax and AUC of monodemethyl-ulipristal acetate decreased by 84% and 90% respectively.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ulipristal and rifapentine. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Another strong CYP3A4 inducer reduced ulipristal exposure by 93% and exposure of its active metabolite by 90%.
Ritonavir: (Moderate) Use of ulipristal and ritonavir may increase the plasma concentration of ulipristal but is not likely to be significant for emergency contraceptive use. Avoid ritonavir if ulipristal is given chronically for hormonal conditions. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and ritonavir is a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor and in chronic use, may induce CYP3A4. Use together is likely to increase ulipristal concentrations overall, which may increase the risk for ulipristal-related adverse reactions.
Saquinavir: (Minor) Concomitant use of ulipristal and saquinavir may increase the plasma concentration of ulipristal resulting in an increased risk for ulipristal-related adverse events; however, this is not likely to be significant for single-dose emergency contraceptive use. Ulipristal is a CYP3A substrate and saquinavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ulipristal overall exposure by 5.9-fold and increased the overall exposure if ulipristal's active metabolite, monodemethyl-ulipristal acetate, by 2.4-fold.
Secobarbital: (Major) Avoid administration of ulipristal with drugs that induce CYP3A4. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and barbiturates (such as phenobarbital or primidone) are CYP3A4 inducers. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ulipristal and progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives or other progestins. Hormonal contraceptives may be started or resumed no sooner than 5 days after ulipristal treatment. Also, a reliable barrier method of contraception should be used during the same menstrual cycle in which ulipristal was administered (until the next menstrual period). Progestin-containing contraceptives may impair the ability of ulipristal to delay ovulation. Ulipristal may reduce the effectiveness of progestin-containing hormonal contraceptives by competitively binding at the progesterone receptor.
Sodium Phenylbutyrate; Taurursodiol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ulipristal with taurursodiol. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A and taurursodiol is a CYP3A inducer.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Avoid administration of ulipristal with drugs or herbal/dietary supplements that induce CYP3A4. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and St. John's Wort is a CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal.
Suzetrigine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ulipristal with suzetrigine. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A and suzetrigine is a CYP3A inducer.
Tazemetostat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ulipristal with tazemetostat. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A and tazemetostat is a CYP3A inducer.
Tipranavir: (Minor) Concomitant use of ulipristal and tipranavir may increase the plasma concentration of ulipristal resulting in an increased risk for ulipristal-related adverse events; however, this is not likely to be significant for single-dose emergency contraceptive use. Ulipristal is a CYP3A substrate and tipranavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ulipristal overall exposure by 5.9-fold and increased the overall exposure if ulipristal's active metabolite, monodemethyl-ulipristal acetate, by 2.4-fold.
Topiramate: (Major) Avoid administration of ulipristal with drugs that induce CYP3A4. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and topiramate is a mild CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal.
Tovorafenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ulipristal with tovorafenib. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A and tovorafenib is a CYP3A inducer.
Tucatinib: (Minor) Concomitant use of ulipristal and tucatinib may increase the plasma concentration of ulipristal resulting in an increased risk for ulipristal-related adverse events; however, this is not likely to be significant for single-dose emergency contraceptive use. Ulipristal is a CYP3A substrate and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ulipristal overall exposure by 5.9-fold and increased the overall exposure if ulipristal's active metabolite, monodemethyl-ulipristal acetate, by 2.4-fold.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Minor) Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and clarithromycin is a CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may increase the plasma concentration of ulipristal resulting in an increased risk for adverse events.
Vorasidenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ulipristal with vorasidenib. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A and vorasidenib is a CYP3A inducer.
Voriconazole: (Minor) Concomitant use of ulipristal and voriconazole may increase the plasma concentration of ulipristal resulting in an increased risk for ulipristal-related adverse events; however, this is not likely to be significant for single-dose emergency contraceptive use. Ulipristal is a CYP3A substrate and voriconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ulipristal overall exposure by 5.9-fold and increased the overall exposure if ulipristal's active metabolite, monodemethyl-ulipristal acetate, by 2.4-fold.
Zafirlukast: (Minor) Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and zafirlukast is a CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may increase the plasma concentration of ulipristal resulting in an increased risk for adverse events.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    dizziness, fatigue, headache
    General Information
    Adverse events involving the central nervous system were reported during clinical trials in which women received a single dose of ulipristal. Adverse effects reported in >= 5% of patients include headache, which was the most commonly reported adverse event (18—19%). Fatigue (6%) and dizziness (5%) were also reported.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    abdominal pain, nausea
    General Information
    Adverse events involving the gastrointestinal system reported during clinical trials of ulipristal in which women received a single 30 mg dose included nausea (12—13%) and abdominal and upper abdominal pain (8—15%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    breakthrough bleeding, dysmenorrhea, menstrual irregularity
    General Information
    During clinical trials, dysmenorrhea was reported in 7—13% of women. Cycle length was increased by a mean of 2.5 days but returned to normal in the next cycle. Menstrual irregularity may also occur; menses occurring more than 7 days earlier than expected was reported in 7% of women, and 19% reported a delay of more than 7 days. Pregnancy should be ruled out if there is a delay in menses of greater than 1 week. In addition, breakthrough bleeding was reported in 9% of women after using ulipristal.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dysmenorrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      breakthrough bleeding
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      menstrual irregularity
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    acne vulgaris, angioedema, pruritus, rash, urticaria
    General Information
    Hypersensitivity reactions, including rash, urticaria, pruritus, and angioedema have been reported during postmaketing experience with ulipristal. Acne vulgaris has also been reported during post-approval use of ulipristal.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      acne vulgaris
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    ectopic pregnancy
    General Information
    There is a possibility of ectopic pregnancy in people who complain of lower abdominal pain or who become pregnant after taking ulipristal. A follow-up physical or pelvic examination is recommended if there is any doubt regarding the general health or pregnancy status of an individual who has taken ulipristal for post-coital emergency contraception.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      ectopic pregnancy
      Severity
      Severe

Description
  Text
  Ulipristal is a progesterone agonist/antagonist emergency contraceptive. It is indicated to prevent pregnancy after unprotected intercourse or a known or suspected contraceptive failure for up to 5 days after intercourse and is available only by prescription in the U.S. The drug is not intended to be used for routine contraception, for more than 1 episode of unprotected intercourse in a menstrual cycle, or to terminate an existing pregnancy. As with other emergency contraceptives, there are few contraindications to use. Other uses of ulipristal include the treatment of uterine leiomyomatas (fibroids); the drug reduces fibroid size and controls bleeding prior to anticipated surgery. Ulipristal was FDA-approved as a one-dose emergency contraceptive in 2010.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Ulipristal is a progesterone receptor modulator with antagonistic and partial agonist effects (a progesterone agonist/antagonist) that binds to the progesterone receptor and prevents progesterone from occupying the receptor. Ulipristal postpones follicular rupture when taken immediately prior to ovulation. The primary mechanism of action of ulipristal for emergency contraception is likely the inhibition or delay of ovulation. In addition, alterations to the endometrium may affect implantation and may also contribute to efficacy for emergency contraception.
 
The pharmacodynamic effects of ulipristal depend on the phase of the menstrual cycle in which it was administered. Administration in the mid-follicular phase results in inhibition of folliculogenesis and a reduction in estradiol concentrations. If administered during the time of peak luteinizing hormone, follicular rupture is delayed by 5 to 9 days. Dosing in the early luteal phase does not significantly delay endometrial maturation but does decrease endometrial thickness by 0.6 +/- 2.2 mm.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Following oral administration, peak plasma concentrations of ulipristal and its active metabolite are reached in approximately 1 hour. Although administration with a high-fat meal results in a lower maximum concentration and delays time to reach a maximum concentration when compared to administration in the fasting state, these differences are not expected to result in significant changes in efficacy or safety. Therefore, ulipristal may be taken with or without food.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    No pharmacokinetic studies with ulipristal acetate have been performed in women with impaired hepatic function. Due to the CYP3A4-mediated metabolism, hepatic impairment is expected to alter the elimination of ulipristal acetate, resulting in increased exposure.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    No pharmacokinetic studies with ulipristal acetate have been performed in women with impaired renal function.
    Name
    Pediatrics
    Description
    Ulipristal has been studied clinically in adolescent females during clinical trials; specific pharmacokinetic data for this population are not available. The drug is not indicated for use in patients pre-menarche. Safety and efficacy of ulipristal have been established in women of reproductive age.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    Pharmacokinetic data indicate that exposure of ulipristal in South Asian patients may exceed that of Caucasians and African Americans; however, no difference in safety or efficacy has been observed for women of different races in clinical studies.
  Text
  Uliprisal is administered orally. It is highly bound (more than 94%) to plasma proteins, and is excreted into breast milk. Ulipristal acetate is readily converted to its mono-N-demethylated and subsequently to its di-N-demethylated metabolites. In vitro data indicate that this is predominantly mediated by CYP3A4. The main route of elimination is through faeces and less than 10% is excreted in the urine. The terminal half-life after a single 30-mg dose is 32.4 +/- 6.3 hours.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 (CYP450) isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A4, P-glycoprotein (P-gp)
Ulipristal is a CYP3A4 substrate. In vitro data indicate ulipristal does not inhibit or induce the activity of CYP450 enzymes. Ulipristal should not be given with drugs or herbal products that potently induce CYP3A4, as effectiveness is likely to be reduced. When a single 30-mg dose of ulipristal acetate was administered following administration of the strong CYP3A4 inducer (rifampin), the Cmax and AUC of ulipristal acetate decreased by 90% and 93% respectively. The Cmax and AUC of monodemethyl-ulipristal acetate decreased by 84% and 90% respectively.
 
CYP3A4 inhibitors increase the plasma concentrations of ulipristal; the drug is not recommended to be administered with moderate or potent CYP3A4 inhibitors when given chronically (daily for hormonal conditions). When used single-dose for emergency contraception, use with caution and be alert for increased common side effects, like nausea/vomiting, dizziness, and headache. When a single 10-mg dose of ulipristal acetate was administered following administration of the strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, the Cmax and AUC of ulipristal acetate increased by 2- and 5.9- fold, respectively. While the AUC of monodemethyl-ulipristal acetate increased by 2.4-fold, Cmax of monodemethyl-ulipristal acetate decreased by 47%. In vitro data indicate that ulipristal is an inhibitor of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and breast-cancer resistance protein (BCRP) at the intestinal level, during the time of ulipristal absorption. The effects of ulipristal on P-gp and/or BCRP transport are unlikely to have any clinical consequences when considering a single dose treatment regimen for emergency contraception, although there was no in vivo drug interaction study. It is recommended that coadministration of ulipristal acetate and orally-administered narrow-therapeutic index P-gp substrates be separated in administration time by at least 1.5 hours, particularly with chronic daily administration of ulipristal. This separation time has been shown to negate the potential for interaction when fexofenadine (a sensitive P-gp substrate) was studied with ulipristal.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
 
Hazardous Drugs Classification
NIOSH 2024 List: Table 2
Observe and exercise appropriate precautions for handling, preparation, administration, and disposal of hazardous drugs.
Use gloves to handle; double chemotherapy gloves and a protective gown are needed if manipulation is necessary. Cutting, crushing, or otherwise manipulating tablets/capsules will increase exposure.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Take with or without food.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    30 mg PO single dose for emergency postcoital contraception. If the patient vomits within 3 hours of first dose, a second 30 mg dose may be given; limit use to 1 course of treatment during any given menstrual cycle.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    30 mg PO single dose for emergency postcoital contraception. If the patient vomits within 3 hours of first dose, a second 30 mg dose may be given; limit use to 1 course of treatment during any given menstrual cycle.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Use before menarche is not indicated.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Not indicated.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  No dose adjustment is recommended when ulipristal is used as a single dose for post-coital emergency contraception. Guidelines note that the limited duration of use (single-dose) for emergency contraception would be expected to have less clinical impact in patients with liver dysfunction than with use of routine hormonal contraception.  The chronic use of ulipristal acetate is not recommended in patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment unless the patient is closely monitored due to a lack of safety data for chronic use in this population.
  Renal Impairment
  No dose adjustment is recommended in patients with renal impairment when ulipristal is used as a single dose for post-coital contraception. With chronic use for other indications, no dosage adjustment is recommended for patients with mild or moderate renal impairment. In the absence of specific studies, chronic use is not recommended in patients with severe renal impairment unless the patient is closely monitored.
