=== Antihemophilic Factor, Porcine Sequence, Recombinant — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 3934)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Antihemophilic factor, porcine sequence, recombinant is an antihemophilic factor for the treatment of bleeding episodes in adults with acquired hemophilia A.

Routes: intravenous; Common adult doses: Specific maximum dosage information is not available. Individualize dosage based on the severity of the factor VIII deficiency, the location and extent of bleeding, and the patient’s clinical condition.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, dyspnea, hypotension, pruritus, urticaria, wheezing

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. hereditary factor VIII deficiency with anti-factor VIII inhibitor Antihemophilic factor, porcine sequence, recombinant is contraindicated in individuals with hereditary factor VIII...

ANTIHEMOPHILIC FACTOR, PORCINE SEQUENCE, RECOMBINANT

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

OBIZUR

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of bleeding episodes in adults with acquired hemophilia A

Intravenous dosage
Adults


200 units/kg IV initially; initial dosing less than 200 units/kg has been associated with lack of efficacy. The subsequent dose, frequency, and duration of treatment depend on the severity of the factor VIII deficiency, the location and extent of bleeding, and the patient's clinical condition. Doses may be administered every 4 to 12 hours based on clinical response and measured factor VIII concentration. For minor and moderate bleeding (e.g., superficial muscle without neurovascular compromise, and joint), the circulating factor VIII concentration required is 50% to 100% of normal. For major bleeding (e.g., moderate to severe intramuscular bleeding, retroperitoneal, gastrointestinal, intracranial), the circulating factor VIII concentration required is 100% to 200% of normal to treat an acute bleed and 50% to 100% of normal after the acute bleed is controlled, if needed. Plasma concentration of factor VIII should not exceed 200% of normal or 200 units/dL. Safety and efficacy has not been established in patients with a baseline anti-porcine factor VIII inhibitor titer of more than 20 Bethesda Units (BU).


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

hereditary factor VIII deficiency with anti-factor VIII inhibitor


Antihemophilic factor, porcine sequence, recombinant is contraindicated in individuals with hereditary factor VIII deficiency with anti-factor VIII inhibitor [also known as congenital hemophilia A with inhibitors (CHAWI)] due to a high incidence of anamnestic reactions to human factor VIII (hFVIII) and porcine factor VIII (pFVIII). Inhibitory antibodies may result in lack of efficacy. Consider evaluating for the presence of anti-recombinant porcine factor VIII (anti-rpFVIII) antibodies before treatment initiation with antihemophilic factor, porcine sequence, recombinant.


pregnancy


Data are insufficient to advise a drug-associated risk of antihemophilic factor, porcine sequence, recombinant use during pregnancy. It is not known if this medication can cause fetal harm if given during pregnancy. Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted.


breast-feeding


There are no data on the presence of antihemophilic factor, porcine sequence, recombinant in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the patient's clinical need for the medication, and any potential adverse effects on the breast-fed child from the medication or from the underlying maternal medical condition.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Data are insufficient to advise a drug-associated risk of antihemophilic factor, porcine sequence, recombinant use during pregnancy. It is not known if this medication can cause fetal harm if given during pregnancy. Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted.


Interactions

Concizumab: (Moderate) Monitor for thromboembolic events during concomitant use of concizumab and antihemophilic factor (factor VIII). Use the lowest-approved dose of factor VIII when needed for the treatment of breakthrough bleeding events. Additive and sometimes synergistic increases in thrombin peak, as quantified in the thrombin generation assay, have been observed during concomitant use, which may increase the risk for adverse clotting events.
Fitusiran: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of fitusiran and antihemophilic factor, also known as factor VIII, for bleeding prophylaxis; when starting fitusiran, discontinue factor VIII within 7 days of initiation. For the management of breakthrough bleeding, reduce the dose of factor VIII to 10 International Units/kg, not to be repeated in less than 24 hours, up to a maximum of 20 International Units/kg. Additive and sometimes synergistic increases in thrombin peak, as quantified by thrombin generation assay, have been observed during concomitant use which may increase the risk for adverse clotting events.


Adverse Reaction
anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, dyspnea, hypotension, pruritus, urticaria, wheezing


Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylactoid reactions, are possible with recombinant antihemophilic factor, porcine sequence. Early signs of hypersensitivity reactions include angioedema, chest tightness, dyspnea, hypotension, wheezing, urticaria, and pruritus. Immediately discontinue antihemophilic factor porcine sequence if hypersensitivity symptoms occur, and initiate appropriate treatment.


antibody formation


Anti-recombinant porcine factor VIII (anti-rpFVIII) antibody formation has occurred in individuals treated with antihemophilic factor, porcine sequence, recombinant. Inhibitors are considered to have developed if the titer is 0.6 Bethesda Units (BU)/mL or more. Inhibitory antibodies may result in lack of efficacy. If anti-rpFVIII antibodies are detected after treatment initiation, use factor VIII concentrations to determine whether to continue treatment with antihemophilic factor, porcine sequence, recombinant. Monitor individuals for the development of inhibitory antibodies using a Nijmegen Bethesda inhibitor assay and use Bethesda Units (BU) to report inhibitor concentrations. Suspect the presence of anti-porcine factor VIII antibody if plasma factor VIII concentrations fail to increase as expected or if bleeding is not controlled after administration of antihemophilic factor, porcine sequence, recombinant. If there is a lack of efficacy and factor VIII inhibitors are suspected, consider discontinuing antihemophilic factor, porcine sequence, recombinant and initiating other therapeutic agents (e.g., factor VIII bypassing agent). Of 29 subjects with acquired hemophilia A treated with antihemophilic factor, porcine sequence, recombinant, 19 were negative for anti-porcine factor VIII antibodies at baseline. Of these 19 subjects, 5 (26%) developed antibodies after exposure to antihemophilic factor, porcine sequence, recombinant. Serious adverse reactions occurred in 9 patients; 2 patients developed anti-porcine factor VIII inhibitors and 7 developed anamnestic reactions with a rise of 10 BU or more in human factor VIII and/or recombinant factor VIII, porcine sequence inhibitors. Antihemophilic factor, porcine sequence, recombinant was effective in 9 out of 10 subjects with baseline anti-porcine antibodies and in all 5 with de-novo anti-porcine antibodies. No subjects developed de novo anti-baby hamster kidney (BHK) antibodies during treatment. In a clinical trial of antihemophilic factor, porcine sequence, recombinant in subjects with congential hemophilia A with inhibitors (CHAWI) undergoing major surgery, 5 (62.5%) subjects reported anamnestic reactions with a rise of 10 BU or more in human factor VIII (hFVIII) and/or porcine factor VIII (pFVIII) inhibitors. Anamnestic reactions to hFVIII and pFVIII developed in 3 (37.5%) subjects, and anamnestic reactions to hFVIII developed in 2 (25%) subjects. The highest increases in antibody concentrations reported are from 15 BU at baseline to 1,040 BU for hFVIII and from 3 to 336 BU for pFVIII.


Description

Antihemophilic factor, porcine sequence, recombinant is an antihemophilic factor for the treatment of bleeding episodes in adults with acquired hemophilia A. This product is expressed in a genetically engineered baby hamster kidney (BHK) cell line which secretes recombinant porcine factor VIII into the cell culture medium. Formation of porcine factor VIII antibodies can occur and may result in lack of efficacy. Safety and efficacy of antihemophilic factor, porcine sequence, recombinant has not been established in persons with a baseline anti-porcine factor VIII inhibitor titer more than 20 Bethesda Units (BU). Antihemophilic factor, porcine sequence, recombinant is not indicated for the treatment of von Willebrand disease and is contraindicated in persons with congenital hemophilia A with inhibitors (CHAWI).

Mechanism Of Action

Patients with acquired hemophilia A have normal factor VIII genes but develop autoantibodies (i.e., inhibitors) against endogenous factor VIII. The autoantibodies neutralize circulating human factor VIII, resulting in a deficiency of this procoagulant protein. Patients with acquired hemophilia A have a prolonged clotting time, measured by aPTT, a conventional in vitro test for biological activity of factor VIII. Administration of recombinant antihemophilic factor, porcine sequence temporarily replaces the inhibited factor VIII needed for effective hemostasis and normalizes the aPTT over the effective dosing period. However, factor VIII activity, not aPTT, should not be used as a measure of efficacy during treatment.

Pharmacokinetics

Antihemophilic factor, porcine sequence, recombinant is administered intravenously. Formal pharmacokinetic studies have not been conducted. The pharmacokinetics were studied in 3 patients with hemophilia A and a history of human factor VIII inhibitors receiving a single antihemophilic factor, porcine sequence, recombinant dose of 100 units/kg. Utilizing the one-stage clotting assay, the mean (standard deviation) for Cmax was 176 (88) units/dL, Tmax was 0.6 (0.03) hours, and half-life was 10.63 (0.77) hours.
 
Affected CYP450 isoenzymes or drug transporters: none

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
Factor VIII activity is expressed in units. Potency values are determined by a 1-stage clotting assay.
Each single-use vial nominally contains 500 units per vial. The exact recombinant porcine factor VIII potency in units is stated on each vial.
Plasma factor VIII concentrations can be monitored using a 1-stage clotting assay.


Injectable Administration


Visually inspect parenteral products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit. The solution should be clear and colorless. Do not administer if particulate matter or discoloration are observed.


Intravenous Administration

Reconstitution
Use aseptic technique throughout the entire reconstitution process.
Allow vial of antihemophilic factor porcine sequence and prefilled diluent syringe (provided) to reach room temperature.
Peel back the cover of the vial adapter package, taking care not to touch the Luer-lock (tip) in the center of the vial adapter. Do not remove the vial adapter from the plastic package.
Place the vial adapter package on a clean surface with the Luer-lock pointing up.
Snap off the tamper-resistant cap of the prefilled syringe.
While firmly holding the vial adapter package, connect the prefilled syringe to the vial adapter by pushing the syringe tip down onto the Luer-lock in the center of the vial adapter. Turn clockwise until the syringe is secured. Do not over tighten.
Remove plastic package.
Place the antihemophilic factor porcine sequence vial on a clean, flat, hard surface. Place the vial adapter over the vial and firmly push the filter spike of the vial adapter through the center of the antihemophilic factor porcine sequence vial's rubber circle until the clear plastic cap snaps onto the vial.
Push the plunger down to slowly inject all the diluent from the syringe into the vial.
Gently swirl, in a circular motion, the antihemophilic factor porcine sequence vial without removing the syringe until all of the powder is fully dissolved.
With 1 hand, hold the vial and adapter, and with the other hand firmly grasp the barrel of the prefilled syringe and in a counterclockwise motion, unscrew the syringe from the vial adapter.
Storage: Use the reconstituted solution within 3 hours after reconstitution when stored at room temperature.
 
Intermittent IV infusion
Once all vials have been reconstituted, attach a large syringe to the vial adapter by gently pushing the syringe tip down onto the Luer-lock in the center of the vial adapter, turning clockwise until it is securely in place.
Invert the vial; push the air in the syringe into the vial and withdraw the reconstituted solution into the syringe.
Unscrew the large syringe counterclockwise from the vial adapter, and repeat this process for all reconstituted vials until the total volume to be administered is reached.
Do not administer in the same tubing with other medications.
Administer intravenously at a rate of 1 to 2 mL/minute.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

Specific maximum dosage information is not available. Individualize dosage based on the severity of the factor VIII deficiency, the location and extent of bleeding, and the patient’s clinical condition.

Geriatric

Specific maximum dosage information is not available. Individualize dosage based on the severity of the factor VIII deficiency, the location and extent of bleeding, and the patient’s clinical condition.

Adolescents

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Children

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

Renal Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

© 2026 Elsevier