=== Toremifene (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 823)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Toremifene is an oral nonsteroidal antiestrogen for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer in postmenopausal women.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 60 mg PO once daily.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): diaphoresis, dyspnea, edema, fatigue, hot flashes, lethargy, erythema, hypercalcemia, musculoskeletal pain, elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatitis, hyperbilirubinemia, jaundice, phlebitis, pulmonary embolism, stroke, thrombosis, blurred vision, cataracts, corneal opacification, diplopia, keratopathy, visual impairment, xerophthalmia, endometrial hyperplasia, vaginal bleeding, vaginal discharge, asthenia, ataxia, depression

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Toremifene is excreted into the breast milk of lactating rats, however, it is uncertain if toremifene is distributed into human breast milk. The potential for serious adverse effects on the infant indicate that breast-feeding should be discontinued during toremifene therapy. Hazardous drug: NIOSH 2024 List: Table 2

Brand Names
  - Fareston

Dosage Forms
  - Fareston 60mg Tablet
  - Toremifene Citrate 60mg Oral tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adult females
        Dosage Description
        60 mg PO once daily until disease progression. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. In 2 randomized clinical trials, treatment with toremifene 60 mg (n = 378) resulted in similar response rates, time to progression (TTP), and overall survival (OS) compared with tamoxifen 20 mg (n = 215) or tamoxifen 40 mg (n = 149). In a separate clinical trial, tamoxifen (n = 201) had a higher response rate compared with toremifene (n = 214); however, this difference was not statistically significant. Treatment with higher doses of toremifene (200 mg or 240 mg) did not result in significant improvements in TTP or OS.
    Heading
    For the treatment of metastatic breast cancer in postmenopausal women with estrogen-receptor positive tumors or with tumors of unknown estrogen-receptor status

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Toremifene is excreted into the breast milk of lactating rats, however, it is uncertain if toremifene is distributed into human breast milk. The potential for serious adverse effects on the infant indicate that breast-feeding should be discontinued during toremifene therapy.
 
Toremifene is a pregnancy category D drug. Toremifene can cause harm to the fetus if administered to pregnant women and is therefore should be used cautiously during pregnancy. Animal data indicate that toremifene can cross the placental barrier. There have been no studies in pregnant women. Women should be instructed to use barrier methods of contraception. If toremifene is used during pregnancy, or if the patient becomes pregnant while receiving toremifene, the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus or potential risk for loss of the pregnancy.
 
Toremifene should generally not be used to treat patients with a history of thromboembolic disease. Leukocyte and platelet counts should be monitored when using toremifene in patients with leukopenia or thrombocytopenia. Leukopenia and thrombocytopenia have been reported rarely with toremifene therapy. Further, intramuscular injections should be avoided in patients receiving toremifene since IM injections may cause bleeding, bruising, or hematomas.
 
Use toremifene cautiously in patients with preexisting hypercalcemia. As with other antiestrogens, hypercalcemia and tumor flare have been reported in some breast cancer patients with bone metastases during the first weeks of treatment with toremifene. Patients with bone metastases should be monitored closely for hypercalcemia during the first weeks of treatment. If hypercalcemia occurs, appropriate measures should be instituted and if hypercalcemia is severe, toremifene therapy should be discontinued.
 
Toremifene should be used cautiously in patients with hepatic disease. Patients with cirrhosis or fibrosis had an almost twofold increase in the mean elimination half-life of toremifene compared to patients with normal hepatic function. The pharmacokinetics of N-demethyltoremifene were unchanged in these patients.
 
There is no indication for use of toremifene in children.
 
Use toremifene cautiously in patients with preexisting endometrial hyperplasia or endometrial cancer. In general, patients with preexisting endometrial hyperplasia should not receive long-term toremifene therapy.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    bradycardia, cardiomyopathy, congenital long QT syndrome, coronary artery disease, females, geriatric, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, QT prolongation
    General Information
    Toremifene is contraindicated in patients with congenital long QT syndrome, acquired QT prolongation, and uncorrected hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia. Avoid use of toremifene in people with baseline QT prolongation or who have conditions that may increase the risk of QT prolongation or torsade de pointes, including bradycardia, congenital long QT syndrome, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, geriatric adults, females, structural abnormalities that interfere with electrical conduction (e.g., cardiomyopathy, coronary artery disease, ischemic heart disease), or in those who have other additional risk factors for QT prolongation or torsade de pointes. The use of other medications that have been associated with QT prolongation or torsade de pointes may further increase risk. If treatment is necessary in patients with congestive heart failure or electrolyte abnormalities, exercise caution. Obtain an electrocardiogram (ECG) at baseline and as clinically indicated in patients at increased risk for QT prolongation. Correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to treatment and monitor periodically during therapy.
    Headline
    thrombophilia
    General Information
    Toremifene should generally not be used to treat patients with thrombophilia.
    Headline
    bone metastases
    General Information
    Closely monitor patients with bone metastases for hypercalcemia during the first weeks of treatment with toremifene. Hypercalcemia and tumor flare have been reported in some breast cancer patients with bone metastases during the first weeks of treatment with toremifene and other antiestrogens. Manage hypercalcemia as clinically appropriate; discontinue toremifene for severe hypercalcemia.
    Headline
    abnormal uterine bleeding, increased risk for uterine cancer
    General Information
    Discuss the potential benefits versus risks of using toremifene for patients with an increased risk for uterine cancer; individuals at high risk for endometrial cancer should be closely monitored. Individuals should undergo regular gynecologic examinations and report any abnormal uterine bleeding, pelvic pain, or pressure. An increased incidence of endometrial cancer, endometrial hypertrophy, endometrial hyperplasia, and uterine polyps have been reported. The long-term use of toremifene has not been established in patients with pre-existing endometrial hyperplasia.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Toremifene may cause fetal harm based on its mechanism of action and findings of increased pregnancy loss and fetal malformations in animal studies. There are no adequately and well controlled studies during human pregnancy. In animal studies, toremifene crossed the placenta and caused embryo-fetal toxicities at maternal doses that were lower than the FDA-recommended human dose on a mg/m2 basis. In rat studies, administration to pregnant rats during organogenesis at exposures of approximately 6% of that achieved with the recommended human dose increased preimplantation loss, increased resorptions, reduced fetal weight, and increased fetal anomalies (e.g., malformation of limbs, incomplete ossification, misshapen bones, rib/spine abnormalities, hydroureter, hydronephrosis, testicular displacement, and subcutaneous edema); maternal toxicity may have contributed. Similar effects occurred in rabbits that received toremifene at exposures of approximately 40% of the expected human exposure at the recommended dose. Additionally, in rodent models of fetal reproductive tract development, toremifene inhibited uterine development in female pups similar to the effects seen with diethylstilbestrol (DES) and tamoxifen; the clinical relevance of these changes is unknown.
    Headline
    people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel people who may become pregnant about the reproductive risk associated with toremifene. Toremifene may cause fetal harm. Advise people who may become pregnant to use effective non-hormonal contraception while taking toremifene.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Avoid the use of toremifene during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of toremifene in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production. Toremifene is present in the milk of lactating rats. Toremifene has a molecular weight of 598 Daltons and is highly protein bound, both of which likely reduce its entry into human milk. However, there is the potential for severe interruption of estrogen levels in breastfed children exposed to toremifene; lactating individuals should withhold breast-feeding for a minimum of 25 to 30 days.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Toremifene may cause fetal harm based on its mechanism of action and findings of increased pregnancy loss and fetal malformations in animal studies. There are no adequately and well controlled studies during human pregnancy. In animal studies, toremifene crossed the placenta and caused embryo-fetal toxicities at maternal doses that were lower than the FDA-recommended human dose on a mg/m2 basis. In rat studies, administration to pregnant rats during organogenesis at exposures of approximately 6% of that achieved with the recommended human dose increased preimplantation loss, increased resorptions, reduced fetal weight, and increased fetal anomalies (e.g., malformation of limbs, incomplete ossification, misshapen bones, rib/spine abnormalities, hydroureter, hydronephrosis, testicular displacement, and subcutaneous edema); maternal toxicity may have contributed. Similar effects occurred in rabbits that received toremifene at exposures of approximately 40% of the expected human exposure at the recommended dose. Additionally, in rodent models of fetal reproductive tract development, toremifene inhibited uterine development in female pups similar to the effects seen with diethylstilbestrol (DES) and tamoxifen; the clinical relevance of these changes is unknown.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Avoid the use of toremifene during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of toremifene in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production. Toremifene is present in the milk of lactating rats. Toremifene has a molecular weight of 598 Daltons and is highly protein bound, both of which likely reduce its entry into human milk. However, there is the potential for severe interruption of estrogen levels in breastfed children exposed to toremifene; lactating individuals should withhold breast-feeding for a minimum of 25 to 30 days.

Interactions
Adagrasib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of adagrasib and toremifene due to the potential for increased toremifene exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Toremifene is a CYP3A substrate, adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT interval prolongation. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased toremifene exposure by 2.9-fold; exposure to N-demethyltoremifene was reduced by 20%.
Alfuzosin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alfuzosin with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer, alfuzosin may also prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium levels in patients receiving concomitant treatment with toremifene and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics decrease renal calcium excretion and may increase the risk of hypercalcemia in patients receiving toremifene.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium levels in patients receiving concomitant treatment with toremifene and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics decrease renal calcium excretion and may increase the risk of hypercalcemia in patients receiving toremifene.
Amiodarone: (Major) Concomitant use of amiodarone and toremifene increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Due to the extremely long half-life of amiodarone, a drug interaction is possible for days to weeks after drug discontinuation.
Amisulpride: (Major) Avoid coadministration of amisulpride with toremifene due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Amisulpride causes dose- and concentration- dependent QT prolongation.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium levels in patients receiving concomitant treatment with toremifene and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics decrease renal calcium excretion and may increase the risk of hypercalcemia in patients receiving toremifene.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin with toremifene if possible due to the risk of increased toremifene exposure resulting in additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene is a CYP3A4 substrate that has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor that is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased toremifene exposure by 2.9-fold; exposure to N-demethyltoremifene was reduced by 20%.
Anagrelide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of anagrelide with toremifene due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide; in addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of apalutamide with toremifene due to decreased plasma concentrations of toremifene which may result in decreased efficacy. Toremifene is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with strong CYP3A4 inducers lowers steady-state serum concentrations of toremifene.
Apomorphine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of apomorphine with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene.
ARIPiprazole: (Major) Concomitant use of toremifene and aripiprazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Arsenic Trioxide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of arsenic trioxide with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, frequently monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Torsade de pointes (TdP), QT interval prolongation, and complete atrioventricular block have been reported with arsenic trioxide use. Toremifene has also been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner.
Artemether; Lumefantrine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of artemether with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Artemether; lumefantrine is also associated with prolongation of the QT interval. (Major) Avoid coadministration of lumefantrine with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Artemether; lumefantrine is also associated with prolongation of the QT interval.
Asenapine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of asenapine with toremifene due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Asenapine has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Atazanavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of atazanavir with toremifene if possible due to increased plasma concentrations of toremifene which may result in QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene is a CYP3A4 substrate that has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner, and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased toremifene exposure by 2.9-fold; exposure to N-demethyltoremifene was reduced by 20%.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of atazanavir with toremifene if possible due to increased plasma concentrations of toremifene which may result in QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene is a CYP3A4 substrate that has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner, and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased toremifene exposure by 2.9-fold; exposure to N-demethyltoremifene was reduced by 20%. (Major) Avoid coadministration of cobicistat with toremifene if possible due to increased plasma concentrations of toremifene which may result in QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene is a CYP3A4 substrate that has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner, and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased toremifene exposure by 2.9-fold; exposure to N-demethyltoremifene was reduced by 20%.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium levels in patients receiving concomitant treatment with toremifene and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics decrease renal calcium excretion and may increase the risk of hypercalcemia in patients receiving toremifene.
Atomoxetine: (Major) Concomitant use of toremifene and atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium levels in patients receiving concomitant treatment with toremifene and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics decrease renal calcium excretion and may increase the risk of hypercalcemia in patients receiving toremifene.
Azithromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of toremifene and azithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Bedaquiline: (Major) Avoid coadministration of bedaquiline with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Bedaquiline has also been reported to prolong the QT interval; coadministration with other QT prolonging drugs may result in additive or synergistic prolongation of the QT interval.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium levels in patients receiving concomitant treatment with toremifene and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics decrease renal calcium excretion and may increase the risk of hypercalcemia in patients receiving toremifene.
Bismuth Subcitrate Potassium; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Major) Concomitant use of toremifene and metronidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Major) Concomitant use of toremifene and metronidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium levels in patients receiving concomitant treatment with toremifene and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics decrease renal calcium excretion and may increase the risk of hypercalcemia in patients receiving toremifene.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Moderate) Consider a meloxicam dose reduction and monitor for adverse reactions if coadministration with toremifene is necessary. Concurrent use may increase meloxicam exposure. Meloxicam is a CYP2C9 substrate and toremifene is a weak CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Buprenorphine: (Major) Concomitant use of toremifene and buprenorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Major) Concomitant use of toremifene and buprenorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rilpivirine with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have also caused QT prolongation.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium levels in patients receiving concomitant treatment with toremifene and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics decrease renal calcium excretion and may increase the risk of hypercalcemia in patients receiving toremifene.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium levels in patients receiving concomitant treatment with toremifene and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics decrease renal calcium excretion and may increase the risk of hypercalcemia in patients receiving toremifene.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of carbamazepine with toremifene due to decreased plasma concentrations of toremifene which may result in decreased efficacy. Toremifene is a CYP3A4 substrate and carbamazepine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with strong CYP3A4 inducers lowers steady-state serum concentrations of toremifene.
Ceritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ceritinib with toremifene if possible due to increased plasma concentrations of toremifene which may result in QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to treatment. Toremifene is a CYP3A4 substrate that has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Ceritinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor that has also been reported to cause concentration-dependent QT prolongation. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased toremifene exposure by 2.9-fold; exposure to N-demethyltoremifene was reduced by 20%.
Chloramphenicol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of chloramphenicol with toremifene if possible due to increased plasma concentrations of toremifene which may result in QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene is a CYP3A4 substrate that has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner, and chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased toremifene exposure by 2.9-fold; exposure to N-demethyltoremifene was reduced by 20%.
Chloroquine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of chloroquine with toremifene due to the increased risk of QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain an ECG at baseline to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. Chloroquine is associated with an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP); the risk of QT prolongation is increased with higher chloroquine doses. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner.
Chlorothiazide: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium levels in patients receiving concomitant treatment with toremifene and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics decrease renal calcium excretion and may increase the risk of hypercalcemia in patients receiving toremifene.
chlorproMAZINE: (Major) Avoid coadministration of chlorpromazine with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Chlorpromazine, a phenothiazine, is also associated with an established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium levels in patients receiving concomitant treatment with toremifene and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics decrease renal calcium excretion and may increase the risk of hypercalcemia in patients receiving toremifene.
Ciprofloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of toremifene and ciprofloxacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Cisapride: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), use of toremifene with cisapride is contraindicated. QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including TdP and death, have been reported with cisapride. Toremifene has also been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner.
Citalopram: (Major) Concomitant use of toremifene and citalopram increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin with toremifene if possible due to the risk of increased toremifene exposure resulting in additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene is a CYP3A4 substrate that has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor that is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased toremifene exposure by 2.9-fold; exposure to N-demethyltoremifene was reduced by 20%.
Clofazimine: (Major) Concomitant use of clofazimine and toremifene increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
cloZAPine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clozapine with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Treatment with clozapine has also been associated with QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), cardiac arrest, and sudden death.
Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of cobicistat with toremifene if possible due to increased plasma concentrations of toremifene which may result in QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene is a CYP3A4 substrate that has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner, and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased toremifene exposure by 2.9-fold; exposure to N-demethyltoremifene was reduced by 20%.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of toremifene and promethazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of toremifene and promethazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Conjugated Estrogens: (Major) The use of estrogens, including oral contraceptives, with toremifene is controversial and is generally considered contraindicated in most, but not all, circumstances. The use of estrogens may aggravate conditions for which toremifene is prescribed. Toremifene exerts its effects by blocking estrogen receptors. Since toremifene and estrogens are pharmacological opposites, they are not usually given concurrently.
Conjugated Estrogens; Bazedoxifene: (Major) The use of estrogens, including oral contraceptives, with toremifene is controversial and is generally considered contraindicated in most, but not all, circumstances. The use of estrogens may aggravate conditions for which toremifene is prescribed. Toremifene exerts its effects by blocking estrogen receptors. Since toremifene and estrogens are pharmacological opposites, they are not usually given concurrently.
Conjugated Estrogens; medroxyPROGESTERone: (Major) The use of estrogens, including oral contraceptives, with toremifene is controversial and is generally considered contraindicated in most, but not all, circumstances. The use of estrogens may aggravate conditions for which toremifene is prescribed. Toremifene exerts its effects by blocking estrogen receptors. Since toremifene and estrogens are pharmacological opposites, they are not usually given concurrently.
Crizotinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of crizotinib with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of crizotinib therapy may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Crizotinib has also been associated with concentration-dependent QT prolongation.
Darunavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of darunavir with toremifene if possible due to increased plasma concentrations of toremifene which may result in QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene is a CYP3A4 substrate that has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner, and darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased toremifene exposure by 2.9-fold; exposure to N-demethyltoremifene was reduced by 20%.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of cobicistat with toremifene if possible due to increased plasma concentrations of toremifene which may result in QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene is a CYP3A4 substrate that has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner, and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased toremifene exposure by 2.9-fold; exposure to N-demethyltoremifene was reduced by 20%. (Major) Avoid coadministration of darunavir with toremifene if possible due to increased plasma concentrations of toremifene which may result in QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene is a CYP3A4 substrate that has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner, and darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased toremifene exposure by 2.9-fold; exposure to N-demethyltoremifene was reduced by 20%.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of cobicistat with toremifene if possible due to increased plasma concentrations of toremifene which may result in QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene is a CYP3A4 substrate that has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner, and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased toremifene exposure by 2.9-fold; exposure to N-demethyltoremifene was reduced by 20%. (Major) Avoid coadministration of darunavir with toremifene if possible due to increased plasma concentrations of toremifene which may result in QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene is a CYP3A4 substrate that has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner, and darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased toremifene exposure by 2.9-fold; exposure to N-demethyltoremifene was reduced by 20%.
Dasatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of dasatinib with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. In vitro studies have shown that dasatinib also has the potential to prolong the QT interval.
Degarelix: (Major) Avoid coadministration of degarelix with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Desflurane: (Major) Avoid coadministration of halogenated anesthetics with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Halogenated anesthetics can also prolong the QT interval.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Major) The use of estrogens, including oral contraceptives, with toremifene is controversial and is generally considered contraindicated in most, but not all, circumstances. The use of estrogens may aggravate conditions for which toremifene is prescribed. Toremifene exerts its effects by blocking estrogen receptors. Since toremifene and estrogens are pharmacological opposites, they are not usually given concurrently.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) The use of estrogens, including oral contraceptives, with toremifene is controversial and is generally considered contraindicated in most, but not all, circumstances. The use of estrogens may aggravate conditions for which toremifene is prescribed. Toremifene exerts its effects by blocking estrogen receptors. Since toremifene and estrogens are pharmacological opposites, they are not usually given concurrently.
Deutetrabenazine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of deutetrabenazine with toremifene due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene has also been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Deutetrabenazine may prolong the QT interval, but the degree of QT prolongation is not clinically significant when deutetrabenazine is administered within the recommended dosage range.
dexAMETHasone: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in toremifene efficacy during concurrent use of toremifene and dexamethasone. Concomitant use may decrease toremifene exposure. Toremifene is a CYP3A substrate and dexamethasone is a CYP3A inducer.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Major) Concomitant use of dexmedetomidine and toremifene increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of quinidine with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Quinidine administration is also associated with QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Diclofenac: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in diclofenac-related adverse reactions if coadministration with toremifene is necessary. Diclofenac is a CYP2C9 substrate and toremifene is a weak CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in diclofenac-related adverse reactions if coadministration with toremifene is necessary. Diclofenac is a CYP2C9 substrate and toremifene is a weak CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Dienogest; Estradiol valerate: (Major) The use of estrogens, including oral contraceptives, with toremifene is controversial and is generally considered contraindicated in most, but not all, circumstances. The use of estrogens may aggravate conditions for which toremifene is prescribed. Toremifene exerts its effects by blocking estrogen receptors. Since toremifene and estrogens are pharmacological opposites, they are not usually given concurrently.
Disopyramide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of disopyramide with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Disopyramide administration is associated with QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Toremifene has also been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner.
Dofetilide: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and toremifene is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rilpivirine with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have also caused QT prolongation.
Donepezil: (Major) Avoid coadministration of donepezil with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Case reports indicate that QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) can also occur during donepezil therapy.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of donepezil with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Case reports indicate that QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) can also occur during donepezil therapy.
Dordaviprone: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and toremifene increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of dronabinol with toremifene is necessary, and monitor for an increase in dronabinol-related adverse reactions (e.g., feeling high, dizziness, confusion, somnolence). Dronabinol is a CYP2C9 and 3A4 substrate; toremifene is a weak inhibitor of CYP2C9. Concomitant use may result in elevated plasma concentrations of dronabinol.
Dronedarone: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), use of toremifene with dronedarone is contraindicated. Both drugs are associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
droPERidol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of droperidol with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, initiate droperidol at a low dose and increase the dose as needed to achieve the desired effect. Closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Droperidol administration is also associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Some cases have occurred in patients with no known risk factors for QT prolongation and some cases have been fatal.
Drospirenone; Estetrol: (Major) The use of estrogens, including oral contraceptives, with toremifene is controversial and is generally considered contraindicated in most, but not all, circumstances. The use of estrogens may aggravate conditions for which toremifene is prescribed. Toremifene exerts its effects by blocking estrogen receptors. Since toremifene and estrogens are pharmacological opposites, they are not usually given concurrently.
Drospirenone; Estradiol: (Major) The use of estrogens, including oral contraceptives, with toremifene is controversial and is generally considered contraindicated in most, but not all, circumstances. The use of estrogens may aggravate conditions for which toremifene is prescribed. Toremifene exerts its effects by blocking estrogen receptors. Since toremifene and estrogens are pharmacological opposites, they are not usually given concurrently.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) The use of estrogens, including oral contraceptives, with toremifene is controversial and is generally considered contraindicated in most, but not all, circumstances. The use of estrogens may aggravate conditions for which toremifene is prescribed. Toremifene exerts its effects by blocking estrogen receptors. Since toremifene and estrogens are pharmacological opposites, they are not usually given concurrently.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Major) The use of estrogens, including oral contraceptives, with toremifene is controversial and is generally considered contraindicated in most, but not all, circumstances. The use of estrogens may aggravate conditions for which toremifene is prescribed. Toremifene exerts its effects by blocking estrogen receptors. Since toremifene and estrogens are pharmacological opposites, they are not usually given concurrently.
Efavirenz: (Major) Avoid coadministration of efavirenz with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Prolongation of the QTc interval has also been observed with the use of efavirenz.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of efavirenz with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Prolongation of the QTc interval has also been observed with the use of efavirenz.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of efavirenz with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Prolongation of the QTc interval has also been observed with the use of efavirenz.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) The use of estrogens, including oral contraceptives, with toremifene is controversial and is generally considered contraindicated in most, but not all, circumstances. The use of estrogens may aggravate conditions for which toremifene is prescribed. Toremifene exerts its effects by blocking estrogen receptors. Since toremifene and estrogens are pharmacological opposites, they are not usually given concurrently.
Eliglustat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of eliglustat with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Eliglustat is also predicted to cause PR, QRS, and/or QT prolongation at significantly elevated plasma concentrations.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of cobicistat with toremifene if possible due to increased plasma concentrations of toremifene which may result in QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene is a CYP3A4 substrate that has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner, and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased toremifene exposure by 2.9-fold; exposure to N-demethyltoremifene was reduced by 20%.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of cobicistat with toremifene if possible due to increased plasma concentrations of toremifene which may result in QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene is a CYP3A4 substrate that has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner, and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased toremifene exposure by 2.9-fold; exposure to N-demethyltoremifene was reduced by 20%.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rilpivirine with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have also caused QT prolongation.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rilpivirine with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have also caused QT prolongation.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium levels in patients receiving concomitant treatment with toremifene and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics decrease renal calcium excretion and may increase the risk of hypercalcemia in patients receiving toremifene.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of encorafenib with toremifene due to the risk for decreased toremifene exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Toremifene is a CYP3A substrate, encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Ensitrelvir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ensitrelvir with toremifene if possible due to increased plasma concentrations of toremifene which may result in QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECG for QT prolongation and monitor serum electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene is a CYP3A substrate that has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner, and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased toremifene exposure by 2.9-fold; exposure to N-demethyltoremifene was reduced by 20%.
Entrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of entrectinib with toremifene due to the risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes. Entrectinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of enzalutamide with toremifene due to decreased plasma concentrations of toremifene which may result in decreased efficacy. Toremifene is a CYP3A4 substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with strong CYP3A4 inducers lowers steady-state serum concentrations of toremifene.
eriBULin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of eribulin with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Eribulin has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Erythromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of toremifene and erythromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Escitalopram: (Major) Concomitant use of toremifene and escitalopram increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Esterified Estrogens: (Major) The use of estrogens, including oral contraceptives, with toremifene is controversial and is generally considered contraindicated in most, but not all, circumstances. The use of estrogens may aggravate conditions for which toremifene is prescribed. Toremifene exerts its effects by blocking estrogen receptors. Since toremifene and estrogens are pharmacological opposites, they are not usually given concurrently.
Esterified Estrogens; methylTESTOSTERone: (Major) The use of estrogens, including oral contraceptives, with toremifene is controversial and is generally considered contraindicated in most, but not all, circumstances. The use of estrogens may aggravate conditions for which toremifene is prescribed. Toremifene exerts its effects by blocking estrogen receptors. Since toremifene and estrogens are pharmacological opposites, they are not usually given concurrently.
Estradiol: (Major) The use of estrogens, including oral contraceptives, with toremifene is controversial and is generally considered contraindicated in most, but not all, circumstances. The use of estrogens may aggravate conditions for which toremifene is prescribed. Toremifene exerts its effects by blocking estrogen receptors. Since toremifene and estrogens are pharmacological opposites, they are not usually given concurrently.
Estradiol; Levonorgestrel: (Major) The use of estrogens, including oral contraceptives, with toremifene is controversial and is generally considered contraindicated in most, but not all, circumstances. The use of estrogens may aggravate conditions for which toremifene is prescribed. Toremifene exerts its effects by blocking estrogen receptors. Since toremifene and estrogens are pharmacological opposites, they are not usually given concurrently.
Estradiol; Norethindrone: (Major) The use of estrogens, including oral contraceptives, with toremifene is controversial and is generally considered contraindicated in most, but not all, circumstances. The use of estrogens may aggravate conditions for which toremifene is prescribed. Toremifene exerts its effects by blocking estrogen receptors. Since toremifene and estrogens are pharmacological opposites, they are not usually given concurrently.
Estradiol; Norgestimate: (Major) The use of estrogens, including oral contraceptives, with toremifene is controversial and is generally considered contraindicated in most, but not all, circumstances. The use of estrogens may aggravate conditions for which toremifene is prescribed. Toremifene exerts its effects by blocking estrogen receptors. Since toremifene and estrogens are pharmacological opposites, they are not usually given concurrently.
Estradiol; Progesterone: (Major) The use of estrogens, including oral contraceptives, with toremifene is controversial and is generally considered contraindicated in most, but not all, circumstances. The use of estrogens may aggravate conditions for which toremifene is prescribed. Toremifene exerts its effects by blocking estrogen receptors. Since toremifene and estrogens are pharmacological opposites, they are not usually given concurrently.
Estrogens: (Major) The use of estrogens, including oral contraceptives, with toremifene is controversial and is generally considered contraindicated in most, but not all, circumstances. The use of estrogens may aggravate conditions for which toremifene is prescribed. Toremifene exerts its effects by blocking estrogen receptors. Since toremifene and estrogens are pharmacological opposites, they are not usually given concurrently.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Major) The use of estrogens, including oral contraceptives, with toremifene is controversial and is generally considered contraindicated in most, but not all, circumstances. The use of estrogens may aggravate conditions for which toremifene is prescribed. Toremifene exerts its effects by blocking estrogen receptors. Since toremifene and estrogens are pharmacological opposites, they are not usually given concurrently.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Major) The use of estrogens, including oral contraceptives, with toremifene is controversial and is generally considered contraindicated in most, but not all, circumstances. The use of estrogens may aggravate conditions for which toremifene is prescribed. Toremifene exerts its effects by blocking estrogen receptors. Since toremifene and estrogens are pharmacological opposites, they are not usually given concurrently.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Major) The use of estrogens, including oral contraceptives, with toremifene is controversial and is generally considered contraindicated in most, but not all, circumstances. The use of estrogens may aggravate conditions for which toremifene is prescribed. Toremifene exerts its effects by blocking estrogen receptors. Since toremifene and estrogens are pharmacological opposites, they are not usually given concurrently.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) The use of estrogens, including oral contraceptives, with toremifene is controversial and is generally considered contraindicated in most, but not all, circumstances. The use of estrogens may aggravate conditions for which toremifene is prescribed. Toremifene exerts its effects by blocking estrogen receptors. Since toremifene and estrogens are pharmacological opposites, they are not usually given concurrently.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) The use of estrogens, including oral contraceptives, with toremifene is controversial and is generally considered contraindicated in most, but not all, circumstances. The use of estrogens may aggravate conditions for which toremifene is prescribed. Toremifene exerts its effects by blocking estrogen receptors. Since toremifene and estrogens are pharmacological opposites, they are not usually given concurrently.
Etrasimod: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and toremifene increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Etravirine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in etravirine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with toremifene is necessary. Etravirine is a CYP2C9 substrate and toremifene is a weak CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and toremifene increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fingolimod: (Major) Avoid coadministration of fingolimod with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. After the first fingolimod dose, overnight monitoring with continuous ECG in a medical facility is advised for patients taking QT prolonging drugs with a known risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). Fingolimod initiation results in decreased heart rate and may prolong the QT interval. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Fingolimod has not been studied in patients treated with drugs that prolong the QT interval, but drugs that prolong the QT interval have been associated with cases of TdP in patients with bradycardia.
Flecainide: (Major) Concomitant use of toremifene and flecainide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fluconazole: (Contraindicated) The concurrent use of fluconazole with drugs that are associated with QT prolongation and are also CYP3A4 substrates, such as toremifene, is contraindicated. Fluconazole has been associated with QT prolongation. Toremifene has also been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner.
Fluoroestradiol F 18: (Major) Hold toremifene for at least 30 days (5 biological half-lives) prior to completing an imaging study with fluoroestradiol F 18. Medications that bind to the estrogen receptor (ER), such as toremifene, may compete with fluoroestradiol F18 binding and reduce the detection of ER-positive lesions.
FLUoxetine: (Major) Concomitant use of toremifene and fluoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
fluPHENAZine: (Minor) Use toremifene and fluphenazine together with caution due to the risk of QT prolongation. The manufacturer of toremifene recommends avoiding toremifene with other drugs that prolong the QT, if possible. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Fluphenazine is also associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, fluphenazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with other drugs that have a risk of QT prolongation.
fluvoxaMINE: (Major) Avoid coadministration of fluvoxamine with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Prolongation of the QT interval and torsade de pointes (TdP) have also been reported during fluvoxamine post-marketing use.
Fosamprenavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of fosamprenavir with toremifene if possible due to increased plasma concentrations of toremifene which may result in QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene is a CYP3A4 substrate that has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner, and fosamprenavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased toremifene exposure by 2.9-fold; exposure to N-demethyltoremifene was reduced by 20%.
Foscarnet: (Major) Avoid coadministration of foscarnet with toremifene due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Both QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been reported during postmarketing use of foscarnet. Toremifene has also been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner.
Fosfomycin (injectable): (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and toremifene increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosfomycin: (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and toremifene increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium levels in patients receiving concomitant treatment with toremifene and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics decrease renal calcium excretion and may increase the risk of hypercalcemia in patients receiving toremifene.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of fosphenytoin with toremifene due to decreased plasma concentrations of toremifene which may result in decreased efficacy. Toremifene is a CYP3A4 substrate and fosphenytoin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with strong CYP3A4 inducers lowers steady-state serum concentrations of toremifene. Phenytoin concentrations may also increase, as phenytoin is a CYP2C9 substrate and toremifene is a weak CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Fostemsavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of fostemsavir with toremifene due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Gemifloxacin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of gemifloxacin with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Gemifloxacin may prolong the QT interval in some patients. The maximal change in the QTc interval occurs approximately 5 to 10 hours following oral administration of gemifloxacin. The likelihood of QTc prolongation may increase with increasing dose of the drug; therefore, the recommended dose should not be exceeded especially in patients with renal or hepatic impairment where the Cmax and AUC are slightly higher. Toremifene has also been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner.
Gemtuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of gemtuzumab ozogamicin with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, obtain an ECG and serum electrolytes prior to starting therapy and closely monitor during treatment; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Although QT interval prolongation has not been reported with gemtuzumab, it has been reported with other drugs that contain calicheamicin.
Gepirone: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and toremifene increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Gepotidacin: (Major) Concomitant use of gepotidacin and toremifene increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Gilteritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of gilteritinib with toremifene due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Gilteritinib has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Givinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of givinostat and toremifene increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with givinostat is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 5 times the maximum recommended dose.
Glasdegib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with toremifene due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with electrolyte monitoring and increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner.
glyBURIDE: (Moderate) Monitor blood glycose in patients receiving concomitant treatment with glyburide and toremifene. Glyburide is a CYP2C9 substrate and toremifene is a weak CYP2C9 inhibitor. Toremifene may increase glyburide exposure and decrease blood glucose concentrations.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glycose in patients receiving concomitant treatment with glyburide and toremifene. Glyburide is a CYP2C9 substrate and toremifene is a weak CYP2C9 inhibitor. Toremifene may increase glyburide exposure and decrease blood glucose concentrations.
Goserelin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of goserelin with toremifene due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., goserelin) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Granisetron: (Major) Avoid coadministration of granisetron with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Granisetron has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Grapefruit juice: (Major) Advise patients to avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice during toremifene treatment due to the risk for increased toremifene exposure and adverse reactions. Toremifene is a CYP3A substrate and grapefruit juice is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Halogenated Anesthetics: (Major) Avoid coadministration of halogenated anesthetics with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Halogenated anesthetics can also prolong the QT interval.
Haloperidol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of haloperidol with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Prolongation of the QT interval and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been observed during haloperidol treatment; excessive doses (particularly in the overdose setting) or IV administration of haloperidol may be associated with a higher risk. Toremifene has also been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner.
Histrelin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of histrelin with toremifene due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., histrelin) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium levels in patients receiving concomitant treatment with toremifene and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics decrease renal calcium excretion and may increase the risk of hypercalcemia in patients receiving toremifene.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium levels in patients receiving concomitant treatment with toremifene and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics decrease renal calcium excretion and may increase the risk of hypercalcemia in patients receiving toremifene.
Hydroxychloroquine: (Major) Concomitant use of toremifene and hydroxychloroquine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
hydrOXYzine: (Major) Concomitant use of toremifene and hydroxyzine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ibutilide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ibutilide with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Ibutilide administration can cause QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP); proarrhythmic events should be anticipated. The potential for proarrhythmic events with ibutilide increases with the coadministration of other drugs that prolong the QT interval. Toremifene has also been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner.
Idelalisib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of idelalisib with toremifene if possible due to increased plasma concentrations of toremifene which may result in QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene is a CYP3A4 substrate that has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner, and idelalisib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased toremifene exposure by 2.9-fold; exposure to N-demethyltoremifene was reduced by 20%.
Iloperidone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of iloperidone with toremifene due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Iloperidone has been associated with QT prolongation. Toremifene has also been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner.
Inotuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of inotuzumab ozogamicin with toremifene due to the potential for additive QT prolongation and risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). If coadministration is unavoidable, obtain an ECG and serum electrolytes prior to the start of treatment, after treatment initiation, and closely monitor during treatment. Correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Inotuzumab has been associated with QT interval prolongation. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium levels in patients receiving concomitant treatment with toremifene and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics decrease renal calcium excretion and may increase the risk of hypercalcemia in patients receiving toremifene.
Isoflurane: (Major) Avoid coadministration of halogenated anesthetics with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Halogenated anesthetics can also prolong the QT interval.
Itraconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of itraconazole with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene is a CYP3A4 substrate that has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Itraconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor that has also been associated with prolongation of the QT interval.
Ivosidenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ivosidenib with toremifene due to an increased risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QTc prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct any electrolyte abnormalities as clinically appropriate. An interruption of therapy and dose reduction of ivosidenib may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Prolongation of the QTc interval and ventricular arrhythmias have been reported in patients treated with ivosidenib. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner.
Ketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and toremifene due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of toremifene, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased toremifene exposure by 2.9-fold; exposure to N-demethyltoremifene was reduced by 20%.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin with toremifene if possible due to the risk of increased toremifene exposure resulting in additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene is a CYP3A4 substrate that has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor that is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased toremifene exposure by 2.9-fold; exposure to N-demethyltoremifene was reduced by 20%.
Lapatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lapatinib with toremifene due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct electrolyte abnormalities prior to treatment. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Lapatinib has also been associated with concentration-dependent QT prolongation; ventricular arrhythmias and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been reported in postmarketing experience with lapatinib.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lefamulin with toremifene as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor ECGs and electrolytes during treatment. Lefamulin has a concentration dependent QTc prolongation effect. The pharmacodynamic interaction potential to prolong the QT interval of the electrocardiogram between lefamulin and other drugs that effect cardiac conduction is unknown. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner.
Lenvatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lenvatinib with toremifene due to the risk of QT prolongation. Prolongation of the QT interval has been reported with lenvatinib therapy. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner.
Letermovir: (Moderate) An increase in the plasma concentration of toremifene may occur if given with letermovir. Avoid coadministration in patients who are also receiving treatment with cyclosporine because the magnitude of this interaction may be amplified. If both letermovir and cyclosporine must be continued, it is recommended that therapy with toremifene be interrupted. If interruption of treatment is not possible and all 3 drugs must be given together, patients should be closely monitored for prolongation of the QT interval. Toremifene is a CYP3A4 substrate. Letermovir is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; however, when given with cyclosporine, the combined effect on CYP3A4 substrates may be similar to a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In a drug interaction study, administration of toremifene with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased toremifene maximum plasma concentration (Cmax) and exposure (AUC) by 1.4- and 2.9-fold, respectively. The Cmax and AUC of toremifene metabolite (N-demethyltoremifene) were reduced by 56% and 20%, respectively.
Leuprolide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of leuprolide with toremifene due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., leuprolide) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
levoFLOXacin: (Major) Concomitant use of toremifene and levofloxacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Levoketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and toremifene due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of toremifene, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased toremifene exposure by 2.9-fold; exposure to N-demethyltoremifene was reduced by 20%.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) The use of estrogens, including oral contraceptives, with toremifene is controversial and is generally considered contraindicated in most, but not all, circumstances. The use of estrogens may aggravate conditions for which toremifene is prescribed. Toremifene exerts its effects by blocking estrogen receptors. Since toremifene and estrogens are pharmacological opposites, they are not usually given concurrently.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Major) The use of estrogens, including oral contraceptives, with toremifene is controversial and is generally considered contraindicated in most, but not all, circumstances. The use of estrogens may aggravate conditions for which toremifene is prescribed. Toremifene exerts its effects by blocking estrogen receptors. Since toremifene and estrogens are pharmacological opposites, they are not usually given concurrently.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Major) The use of estrogens, including oral contraceptives, with toremifene is controversial and is generally considered contraindicated in most, but not all, circumstances. The use of estrogens may aggravate conditions for which toremifene is prescribed. Toremifene exerts its effects by blocking estrogen receptors. Since toremifene and estrogens are pharmacological opposites, they are not usually given concurrently.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium levels in patients receiving concomitant treatment with toremifene and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics decrease renal calcium excretion and may increase the risk of hypercalcemia in patients receiving toremifene.
Lithium: (Major) Concomitant use of toremifene and lithium increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Lofexidine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lofexidine with toremifene due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Monitor ECG and electrolytes if coadministration cannot be avoided. Lofexidine prolongs the QT interval. In addition, there are postmarketing reports of torsade de pointes. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lonafarnib with toremifene if possible due to increased plasma concentrations of toremifene which may result in QT prolongation; increased lonafarnib exposure may also occur. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs, electrolytes, and for lonafarnib-related adverse reactions; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene is a CYP3A4 substrate that has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner and a CYP2C9 inhibitor; lonafarnib is a CYP2C9 substrate and strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased toremifene exposure by 2.9-fold; exposure to N-demethyltoremifene was reduced by 20%.
Loperamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of loperamide with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. At high doses, loperamide has also been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of loperamide with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. At high doses, loperamide has also been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lopinavir; ritonavir with toremifene due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain a baseline ECG to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. Lopinavir; ritonavir is associated with QT prolongation. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. (Major) Avoid coadministration of ritonavir with toremifene if possible due to increased plasma concentrations of toremifene which may result in QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene is a CYP3A4 substrate that has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner, and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased toremifene exposure by 2.9-fold; exposure to N-demethyltoremifene was reduced by 20%.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium levels in patients receiving concomitant treatment with toremifene and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics decrease renal calcium excretion and may increase the risk of hypercalcemia in patients receiving toremifene.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lumacaftor; ivacaftor with toremifene due to decreased plasma concentrations of toremifene which may result in decreased efficacy. Toremifene is a CYP3A4 substrate and lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with strong CYP3A4 inducers lowers steady-state serum concentrations of toremifene.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lumacaftor; ivacaftor with toremifene due to decreased plasma concentrations of toremifene which may result in decreased efficacy. Toremifene is a CYP3A4 substrate and lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with strong CYP3A4 inducers lowers steady-state serum concentrations of toremifene.
Macimorelin: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as toremifene. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner.
Mavorixafor: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and toremifene increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Mefloquine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mefloquine with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. There is evidence that the use of halofantrine after mefloquine causes a significant lengthening of the QTc interval. Mefloquine alone has not been reported to cause QT prolongation. However, due to the lack of clinical data, mefloquine should be used with caution in patients receiving drugs that prolong the QT interval.
Meloxicam: (Moderate) Consider a meloxicam dose reduction and monitor for adverse reactions if coadministration with toremifene is necessary. Concurrent use may increase meloxicam exposure. Meloxicam is a CYP2C9 substrate and toremifene is a weak CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Moderate) Consider a meloxicam dose reduction and monitor for adverse reactions if coadministration with toremifene is necessary. Concurrent use may increase meloxicam exposure. Meloxicam is a CYP2C9 substrate and toremifene is a weak CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Methadone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of methadone with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Consider a reduced dose of methadone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation. If toremifene is discontinued, consider increasing the methadone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Methadone is a CYP2C9 substrate that is associated with an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), especially at higher doses (greater than 200 mg/day but averaging approximately 400 mg/day in adult patients). Most cases involve patients being treated for pain with large, multiple daily doses of methadone, although cases have been reported in patients receiving doses commonly used for maintenance treatment of opioid addiction. Toremifene is a weak CYP2C9 inhibitor that has also been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Coadministration with weak CYP2C9 inhibitors like toremifene can increase methadone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of methadone. If toremifene is discontinued, methadone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to methadone.
metOLazone: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium levels in patients receiving concomitant treatment with toremifene and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics decrease renal calcium excretion and may increase the risk of hypercalcemia in patients receiving toremifene.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium levels in patients receiving concomitant treatment with toremifene and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics decrease renal calcium excretion and may increase the risk of hypercalcemia in patients receiving toremifene.
metroNIDAZOLE: (Major) Concomitant use of toremifene and metronidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Midostaurin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of midostaurin with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Prolongation of the QT interval was reported in patients who received midostaurin in clinical trials.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mifepristone with toremifene if possible due to increased plasma concentrations of toremifene which may result in QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. To minimize the risk of QT prolongation, the lowest effective dose of mifepristone should always be used. Toremifene is a CYP3A4 substrate that has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Mifepristone is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor that has also been associated with dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased toremifene exposure by 2.9-fold; exposure to N-demethyltoremifene was reduced by 20%. The clinical significance of this interaction with the short-term use of mifepristone for termination of pregnancy is unknown.
Mirtazapine: (Major) Concomitant use of toremifene and mirtazapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Mitotane: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitotane with toremifene due to decreased plasma concentrations of toremifene which may result in decreased efficacy. Toremifene is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with strong CYP3A4 inducers lowers steady-state serum concentrations of toremifene.
Mobocertinib: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and toremifene increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Moxifloxacin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of moxifloxacin with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Quinolones have also been associated with a risk of QT prolongation; although extremely rare, torsade de pointes (TdP) has been reported during postmarketing surveillance of moxifloxacin. These reports generally involved patients with concurrent medical conditions or concomitant medications that may have been contributory.
Nateglinide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in nateglinide-related adverse effects, such as hypoglycemia, if concomitant use with toremifene is necessary; a nateglinide dosage reduction may be required. Concomitant use may increase nateglinide exposure. Nateglinide is a CYP2C9 substrate and toremifene is a CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Nefazodone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nefazodone with toremifene if possible due to increased plasma concentrations of toremifene which may result in QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene is a CYP3A4 substrate that has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner, and nefazodone is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased toremifene exposure by 2.9-fold; exposure to N-demethyltoremifene was reduced by 20%.
Nelfinavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nelfinavir with toremifene if possible due to increased plasma concentrations of toremifene which may result in QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene is a CYP3A4 substrate that has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner, and nelfinavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased toremifene exposure by 2.9-fold; exposure to N-demethyltoremifene was reduced by 20%.
Nilotinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nilotinib with toremifene due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Sudden death and QT interval prolongation have occurred in patients who received nilotinib therapy. Toremifene has also been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ritonavir with toremifene if possible due to increased plasma concentrations of toremifene which may result in QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene is a CYP3A4 substrate that has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner, and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased toremifene exposure by 2.9-fold; exposure to N-demethyltoremifene was reduced by 20%.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Major) The use of estrogens, including oral contraceptives, with toremifene is controversial and is generally considered contraindicated in most, but not all, circumstances. The use of estrogens may aggravate conditions for which toremifene is prescribed. Toremifene exerts its effects by blocking estrogen receptors. Since toremifene and estrogens are pharmacological opposites, they are not usually given concurrently.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) The use of estrogens, including oral contraceptives, with toremifene is controversial and is generally considered contraindicated in most, but not all, circumstances. The use of estrogens may aggravate conditions for which toremifene is prescribed. Toremifene exerts its effects by blocking estrogen receptors. Since toremifene and estrogens are pharmacological opposites, they are not usually given concurrently.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Major) The use of estrogens, including oral contraceptives, with toremifene is controversial and is generally considered contraindicated in most, but not all, circumstances. The use of estrogens may aggravate conditions for which toremifene is prescribed. Toremifene exerts its effects by blocking estrogen receptors. Since toremifene and estrogens are pharmacological opposites, they are not usually given concurrently.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) The use of estrogens, including oral contraceptives, with toremifene is controversial and is generally considered contraindicated in most, but not all, circumstances. The use of estrogens may aggravate conditions for which toremifene is prescribed. Toremifene exerts its effects by blocking estrogen receptors. Since toremifene and estrogens are pharmacological opposites, they are not usually given concurrently.
Ofloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of toremifene and ofloxacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
OLANZapine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of olanzapine with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may also be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of olanzapine with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may also be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval. (Major) Concomitant use of toremifene and fluoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of olanzapine with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may also be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium levels in patients receiving concomitant treatment with toremifene and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics decrease renal calcium excretion and may increase the risk of hypercalcemia in patients receiving toremifene.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium levels in patients receiving concomitant treatment with toremifene and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics decrease renal calcium excretion and may increase the risk of hypercalcemia in patients receiving toremifene.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rifabutin with toremifene due to decreased plasma concentrations of toremifene which may result in decreased efficacy. Toremifene is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifabutin is a CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with strong CYP3A4 inducers lowers steady-state serum concentrations of toremifene.
Ondansetron: (Major) Concomitant use of toremifene and ondansetron increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Do not exceed 16 mg of IV ondansetron in a single dose; the degree of QT prolongation associated with ondansetron significantly increases above this dose.
Osilodrostat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of osilodrostat with toremifene due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Osimertinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of osimertinib with toremifene due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor electrolytes and ECGs for QT prolongation; an interruption of osimertinib therapy and dose reduction may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Both drugs have been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner.
Ospemifene: (Major) Ospemifene should not be used concomitantly with estrogen agonists/antagonists such as toremifene. The safety of concomitant use of ospemifene with estrogen agonists/antagonists has not been studied.
Oxaliplatin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of oxaliplatin with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct any electrolyte abnormalities. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Prolongation of the QT interval and ventricular arrhythmias including fatal torsade de pointes (TdP) have been reported with oxaliplatin use in postmarketing experience.
Ozanimod: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ozanimod with toremifene due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Ozanimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ozanimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with torsade de pointes in patients with bradycardia.
Pacritinib: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and toremifene increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Paliperidone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of paliperidone with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Paliperidone has been associated with QT prolongation; torsade de pointes and ventricular fibrillation have been reported in the setting of overdose.
Panobinostat: (Major) Coadministration of panobinostat with toremifene is not recommended due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Prolongation of the QT interval has also been reported with panobinostat.
Pasireotide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pasireotide with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Prolongation of the QT interval has also occurred with pasireotide therapy at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Coadministration of pazopanib and other drugs that prolong the QT interval is not advised due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Pazopanib has also been reported to prolong the QT interval.
Pentamidine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of systemic pentamidine with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Systemic administration of pentamidine has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Perphenazine: (Minor) Use toremifene and perphenazine together with caution due to the risk of QT prolongation. The manufacturer of toremifene recommends avoiding toremifene with other drugs that prolong the QT, if possible. Perphenazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, perphenazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with other drugs that have a risk of QT prolongation. Toremifene has also been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Minor) Use toremifene and perphenazine together with caution due to the risk of QT prolongation. The manufacturer of toremifene recommends avoiding toremifene with other drugs that prolong the QT, if possible. Perphenazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, perphenazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with other drugs that have a risk of QT prolongation. Toremifene has also been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of phenobarbital with toremifene due to decreased plasma concentrations of toremifene which may result in decreased efficacy. Toremifene is a CYP3A4 substrate and phenobarbital is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with strong CYP3A4 inducers lowers steady-state serum concentrations of toremifene.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of phenobarbital with toremifene due to decreased plasma concentrations of toremifene which may result in decreased efficacy. Toremifene is a CYP3A4 substrate and phenobarbital is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with strong CYP3A4 inducers lowers steady-state serum concentrations of toremifene.
Phenytoin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of phenytoin with toremifene due to decreased plasma concentrations of toremifene which may result in decreased efficacy. Toremifene is a CYP3A4 substrate and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with strong CYP3A4 inducers lowers steady-state serum concentrations of toremifene. Phenytoin concentrations may also increase, as phenytoin is a CYP2C9 substrate and toremifene is a weak CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Pimavanserin: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval, such as toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Coadministration may increase the risk for QT prolongation.
Pimozide: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of toremifene with pimozide is contraindicated because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP). Pimozide is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and TdP. Toremifene has also been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner.
Pitolisant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with toremifene as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs and electrolytes. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval.
Ponesimod: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ponesimod with toremifene due to the risk of additive QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation, monitor electrolytes, and seek advice from a cardiologist. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with torsade de pointes in patients with bradycardia.
Posaconazole: (Contraindicated) The concurrent use of posaconazole with drugs that are associated with QT prolongation and are also CYP3A4 substrates, such as toremifene, is contraindicated. Posaconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor that has been associated with QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Toremifene is a CYP3A4 substrate that has also been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner.
Primaquine: (Major) Concomitant use of primaquine and toremifene increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Primidone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of primidone with toremifene due to decreased plasma concentrations of toremifene which may result in decreased efficacy. Toremifene is a CYP3A4 substrate and primidone is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with strong CYP3A4 inducers lowers steady-state serum concentrations of toremifene.
Procainamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of procainamide with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Procainamide is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Prochlorperazine: (Minor) Use toremifene and prochlorperazine together with caution due to the risk of QT prolongation. The manufacturer of toremifene recommends avoiding toremifene with other drugs that prolong the QT, if possible. Prochlorperazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, prochlorperazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with other drugs that have a risk of QT prolongation. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner.
Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of toremifene and promethazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Major) Concomitant use of toremifene and promethazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Concomitant use of toremifene and promethazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Propafenone: (Major) Concomitant use of toremifene and propafenone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
QUEtiapine: (Major) Concomitant use of toremifene and quetiapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium levels in patients receiving concomitant treatment with toremifene and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics decrease renal calcium excretion and may increase the risk of hypercalcemia in patients receiving toremifene.
quiNIDine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of quinidine with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Quinidine administration is also associated with QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
quiNINE: (Major) Avoid coadministration of quinine with toremifene due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Quinine has also been associated with QT prolongation and rare cases of torsade de pointes (TdP).
Quizartinib: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and toremifene increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ranolazine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ranolazine with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Both drugs have been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Although there are no studies examining the effects of ranolazine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Relacorilant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of relacorilant with toremifene if possible due to increased plasma concentrations of toremifene which may result in QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECG for QT prolongation and monitor serum electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene is a CYP3A substrate that has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner, and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased toremifene exposure by 2.9-fold; exposure to N-demethyltoremifene was reduced by 20%.
Relugolix: (Major) Avoid coadministration of relugolix with toremifene due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of relugolix with toremifene due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval. (Major) The use of estrogens, including oral contraceptives, with toremifene is controversial and is generally considered contraindicated in most, but not all, circumstances. The use of estrogens may aggravate conditions for which toremifene is prescribed. Toremifene exerts its effects by blocking estrogen receptors. Since toremifene and estrogens are pharmacological opposites, they are not usually given concurrently.
Revumenib: (Major) Concomitant use of revumenib and toremifene increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ribociclib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ribociclib with toremifene if possible due to increased plasma concentrations of toremifene which may result in QT prolongation. Toremifene is a CYP3A4 substrate that has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor that has also been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased toremifene exposure by 2.9-fold; exposure to N-demethyltoremifene was reduced by 20%.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ribociclib with toremifene if possible due to increased plasma concentrations of toremifene which may result in QT prolongation. Toremifene is a CYP3A4 substrate that has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor that has also been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased toremifene exposure by 2.9-fold; exposure to N-demethyltoremifene was reduced by 20%.
Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rifabutin with toremifene due to decreased plasma concentrations of toremifene which may result in decreased efficacy. Toremifene is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifabutin is a CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with strong CYP3A4 inducers lowers steady-state serum concentrations of toremifene.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rifampin with toremifene due to decreased plasma concentrations of toremifene which may result in decreased efficacy. Toremifene is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with strong CYP3A4 inducers lowers steady-state serum concentrations of toremifene.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rifapentine with toremifene due to decreased plasma concentrations of toremifene which may result in decreased efficacy. Toremifene is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with strong CYP3A4 inducers lowers steady-state serum concentrations of toremifene.
Rilpivirine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rilpivirine with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have also caused QT prolongation.
risperiDONE: (Major) Avoid coadministration of risperidone with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Risperidone has also been associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and/or torsade de pointes (TdP), primarily in the setting of overdose.
Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ritonavir with toremifene if possible due to increased plasma concentrations of toremifene which may result in QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene is a CYP3A4 substrate that has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner, and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased toremifene exposure by 2.9-fold; exposure to N-demethyltoremifene was reduced by 20%.
romiDEPsin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of romidepsin with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Romidepsin has also been reported to prolong the QT interval.
Rosuvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with toremifene. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is an CYP2C9 substrate and toremifene is an CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Rosuvastatin; Ezetimibe: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with toremifene. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is an CYP2C9 substrate and toremifene is an CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Saquinavir: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of saquinavir and toremifene is contraindicated due to the risk of QT prolongation. Saquinavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor that increases the QT interval in a dose-dependent fashion, which may increase the risk for serious arrhythmias such as torsade de pointes (TdP). Toremifene is a CYP3A4 substrate that has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased toremifene exposure by 2.9-fold; exposure to N-demethyltoremifene was reduced by 20%.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) The use of estrogens, including oral contraceptives, with toremifene is controversial and is generally considered contraindicated in most, but not all, circumstances. The use of estrogens may aggravate conditions for which toremifene is prescribed. Toremifene exerts its effects by blocking estrogen receptors. Since toremifene and estrogens are pharmacological opposites, they are not usually given concurrently.
Selpercatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of selpercatinib with toremifene due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Concentration-dependent QT prolongation has been observed with selpercatinib therapy.
Sertraline: (Major) Concomitant use of toremifene and sertraline increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with sertraline is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Sevoflurane: (Major) Avoid coadministration of halogenated anesthetics with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Halogenated anesthetics can also prolong the QT interval.
Siponimod: (Major) Avoid coadministration of siponimod and toremifene due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Consult a cardiologist regarding appropriate monitoring if siponimod use is required. Siponimod therapy prolonged the QT interval at recommended doses in a clinical study. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner.
Solifenacin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of solifenacin with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Both drugs have been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Torsade de pointes (TdP) has also been reported with postmarketing use of solifenacin, although causality was not determined.
SORAfenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sorafenib with toremifene due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor electrocardiograms and correct electrolyte abnormalities. An interruption or discontinuation of sorafenib therapy may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Sorafenib is also associated with QTc prolongation.
Sotalol: (Major) Concomitant use of toremifene and sotalol increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Soy Isoflavones: (Major) Theoretically, the soy isoflavones may compete with drugs that selectively modulate estrogen receptors. The soy isoflavones have a diphenolic structure similar to that of the potent synthetic and natural estrogens. All isoflavones are competitive ligands of in vitro estrogen receptor assays and appear to function as selective estrogen receptor modifiers (SERMs). Soy isoflavones should be used with caution in patients taking selective estrogen receptor modulators (SERMs, e.g., raloxifene, tamoxifen, or toremifene), as not much is known about how soy might influence side effects or therapeutic efficacy of the SERMs.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium levels in patients receiving concomitant treatment with toremifene and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics decrease renal calcium excretion and may increase the risk of hypercalcemia in patients receiving toremifene.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Avoid coadministration of St. John's Wort with toremifene due to decreased plasma concentrations of toremifene which may result in decreased efficacy. Toremifene is a CYP3A4 substrate and St. John's Wort is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with strong CYP3A4 inducers lowers steady-state serum concentrations of toremifene.
Sugammadex: (Minor) Toremifene has a relatively high binding affinity for sugammadex and could displace vecuronium or rocuronium from the complex with sugammadex. The recovery to train of four (TOF) ratio to 0.9 could therefore be delayed in patients who have received toremifene on the same day of surgery.
SUNItinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sunitinib with toremifene due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Sunitinib can also cause dose-dependent QT prolongation, which may increase the risk for ventricular arrhythmias, including torsades de points (TdP).
Tacrolimus: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tacrolimus with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Tacrolimus also causes QT prolongation.
Taletrectinib: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and toremifene increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tamoxifen: (Major) Concomitant use of toremifene and tamoxifen increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Telavancin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of telavancin with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Telavancin has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium levels in patients receiving concomitant treatment with toremifene and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics decrease renal calcium excretion and may increase the risk of hypercalcemia in patients receiving toremifene.
Tetrabenazine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tetrabenazine with toremifene due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Tetrabenazine causes a small increase in the corrected QT interval (QTc). Toremifene has also been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner.
Thiazide diuretics: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium levels in patients receiving concomitant treatment with toremifene and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics decrease renal calcium excretion and may increase the risk of hypercalcemia in patients receiving toremifene.
Thioridazine: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), use of toremifene with thioridazine is contraindicated. Thioridazine is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and TdP. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner.
Tipranavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tipranavir with toremifene if possible due to increased plasma concentrations of toremifene which may result in QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene is a CYP3A4 substrate that has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner, and tipranavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased toremifene exposure by 2.9-fold; exposure to N-demethyltoremifene was reduced by 20%.
Tolterodine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tolterodine with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Tolterodine has also been associated with dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval, especially in poor CYP2D6 metabolizers.
Torsemide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in torsemide-related adverse reactions including diuretic effect and blood pressure if coadministration with toremifene is necessary; adjust the dose of torsemide if necessary. Torsemide is a CYP2C9 substrate and toremifene is a weak CYP2C9 inhibitor.
traZODone: (Major) Concomitant use of trazodone and toremifene increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium levels in patients receiving concomitant treatment with toremifene and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics decrease renal calcium excretion and may increase the risk of hypercalcemia in patients receiving toremifene.
Triclabendazole: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and toremifene increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Trifluoperazine: (Minor) Use toremifene and trifluoperazine together with caution due to the risk of QT prolongation. The manufacturer of toremifene recommends avoiding toremifene with other drugs that prolong the QT, if possible. Trifluoperazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, trifluoperazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with other drugs that have a risk of QT prolongation. Toremifene has also been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner.
Triptorelin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of triptorelin with toremifene due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., triptorelin) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Tucatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tucatinib with toremifene if possible due to increased plasma concentrations of toremifene which may result in QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene is a CYP3A4 substrate that has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner, and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased toremifene exposure by 2.9-fold; exposure to N-demethyltoremifene was reduced by 20%.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium levels in patients receiving concomitant treatment with toremifene and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics decrease renal calcium excretion and may increase the risk of hypercalcemia in patients receiving toremifene.
Vandetanib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with toremifene due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Both drugs can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib.
Vardenafil: (Major) Concomitant use of vardenafil and toremifene increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Vemurafenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vemurafenib with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Vemurafenib has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Venlafaxine: (Major) Concomitant use of venlafaxine and toremifene increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Vepdegestrant: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and toremifene increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Voclosporin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of toremifene and voclosporin due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor ECGs and electrolytes. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Voclosporin has been associated with QT prolongation at supratherapeutic doses.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin with toremifene if possible due to the risk of increased toremifene exposure resulting in additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene is a CYP3A4 substrate that has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor that is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased toremifene exposure by 2.9-fold; exposure to N-demethyltoremifene was reduced by 20%.
Voriconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voriconazole with toremifene if possible due to increased plasma concentrations of toremifene which may result in QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene is a CYP3A4 substrate that has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Voriconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor that has been associated with QT prolongation and rare cases of torsade de pointes (TdP). Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased toremifene exposure by 2.9-fold; exposure to N-demethyltoremifene was reduced by 20%.
Vorinostat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vorinostat with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Vorinostat therapy is also associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Closely monitor the INR if coadministration of warfarin with toremifene is necessary as concurrent use may increase the exposure of warfarin leading to increased bleeding risk. Toremifene is a weak CYP2C9 inhibitor and the S-enantiomer, the active metabolite of warfarin, is a CYP2C9 substrate.
Zidesamtinib: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and toremifene increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ziftomenib: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and toremifene increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ziprasidone: (Contraindicated) Ziprasidone is contraindicated with any drugs that list QT prolongation as a pharmacodynamic effect when this effect has been described within the contraindications or bolded or boxed warnings of the official labeling for such drugs, including toremifene. Ziprasidone has been associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and/or torsade de pointes (TdP). Toremifene has also been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner and medications with a known potential to prolong the QT interval, including ziprasidone, should be avoided with toremifene therapy.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  Adverse reactions reported with toremifene therapy are principally due to the antiestrogenic hormonal actions of the drug and typically occur at the beginning of treatment. The most common adverse reactions in North American studies include diaphoresis, dizziness, edema, hot flashes, nausea/vomiting, vaginal bleeding, and vaginal discharge. Serious adverse reactions occurring in patients receiving toremifene in the three major trials include angina pectoris, arrhythmia, cataracts, cerebrovascular accident/transient ischemic attack, corneal keratopathy, diplopia, elevated hepatic enzymes, increased intraocular pressure and/or ocular hypertension, heart failure, thrombosis, visual impairment, and xerophthalmia. Those adverse reactions causing discontinuation of toremifene therapy in approximately 1% of patients included anorexia, arthropathy, depression, fatigue, ischemic attack, lethargy, myocardial infarction, nausea/vomiting, pulmonary embolism, and phlebitis.As with other antiestrogens, hypercalcemia and tumor flare have been reported in some breast cancer patients with bone metastases during the first weeks of treatment with toremifene. Tumor flare is a syndrome of diffuse musculoskeletal pain and erythema with increased size of tumor lesions that later regress. Tumor flare does not imply failure of treatment or represent tumor progression.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    Adverse reactions reported with toremifene therapy are principally due to the antiestrogenic hormonal actions of the drug and typically occur at the beginning of treatment.
    Headline
    diaphoresis, dyspnea, edema, fatigue, hot flashes, lethargy
    General Information
    In a randomized clinical trial, hot flashes (35% vs. 30%), diaphoresis (20% vs. 17%), and edema (5% vs. 5%) were the most common general adverse reactions reported in patients treated with toremifene (n = 221) compared with tamoxifen (n = 215). Across 3 clinical trials, patients who received toremifene additionally reported arthritis, fatigue, lethargy, dyspnea, and rigors.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      diaphoresis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hot flashes
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      lethargy
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    erythema, hypercalcemia, musculoskeletal pain
    General Information
    As with other antiestrogens, hypercalcemia and tumor flare have been reported in some breast cancer patients with bone metastases during the first weeks of treatment with toremifene. Tumor flare is often accompanied by hypercalcemia and is a syndrome of diffuse musculoskeletal pain and erythema with increased size of tumor lesions that later regress. Tumor flare does not imply failure of treatment or represent tumor progression. Drugs that decrease renal calcium excretion such as thiazide diuretics may increase the risk of hypercalcemia. Closely monitor patients with bone metastases for hypercalcemia during the first weeks of treatment. Discontinue toremifene if hypercalcemia is severe. In clinical trials, less than 3% of patients reported hypercalcemia.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypercalcemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      erythema
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      musculoskeletal pain
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatitis, hyperbilirubinemia, jaundice
    General Information
    Hepatotoxicity, including elevated hepatic enzymes (grade 3 and 4), hyperbilirubinemia, jaundice, hepatitis, and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, have been reported in clinical trials and postmarketing experience with toremifene. In 3 randomized clinical trials, the following serious hepatic effects occurred more often in patients treated with toremifene compared with tamoxifen: increased AST (5% to 19% vs. 2% to 17%), increased alkaline phosphatase (8% to 19% vs. 9% to 15%), and hyperbilirubinemia (1% to 1.5% vs. less than 2%). Periodically monitor liver function tests.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperbilirubinemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hepatitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      jaundice
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    phlebitis, pulmonary embolism, stroke, thrombosis
    General Information
    Across 3 randomized clinical trials, the incidence of thromboembolic complications was similar in patients treated with toremifene (n = 592) compared with tamoxifen (n = 565), including pulmonary embolism (less than or equal to 2% vs. less than or equal to 1%), thrombo-phlebitis (less than or equal to 2% vs. less than or equal to 1.5%), thrombosis (less than or equal to 1.5% vs. less than or equal to 2%), and stroke (CVA)/transient ischemic attack (less than or equal to 2% in each arm).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      stroke
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      phlebitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pulmonary embolism
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      thrombosis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    blurred vision, cataracts, corneal opacification, diplopia, keratopathy, visual impairment, xerophthalmia
    General Information
    Ophthalmic adverse reactions have been reported in patients treated with toremifene in clinical trials. Most ocular abnormalities occurred in one randomized clinical trial, in which patients were required to have on-study and biannual ophthalmic examinations. In this trial, patients with metastatic breast cancer treated with toremifene (n = 221) reported the following compared with tamoxifen (n = 215): cataracts (10% vs. 7.5%), xerophthalmia (9% vs. 7.5%), abnormal visual fields (visual impairment) (4% vs. 5%), corneal keratopathy (2% vs. 1%), and glaucoma (1.5% vs. 1%). In 2 additional trials, toremifene-treated patients reported glaucoma (less than 1%) and diplopia (less than or equal to 1.5%) that was not reported in patients who received tamoxifen. Across these trials, reversible corneal opacification (corneal verticulata) and blurred vision were also reported; no cases of retinopathy were observed.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      blurred vision
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      cataracts
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      corneal opacification
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      diplopia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      keratopathy
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      visual impairment
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerophthalmia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    arrhythmia exacerbation, QT prolongation
    General Information
    Monitor potassium and magnesium levels prior to administration of toremifene and correct any abnormalities. Monitor ECG’s in patients at risk for QT prolongation. In a randomized, double-blind clinical trial of healthy subjects, toremifene prolonged the QTc interval and caused T wave changes in a dose- and concentration-related manner; this can result in syncope, ventricular tachycardia, and Torsade de pointes (TdP). No effects on heart rate, PR, and QRS interval duration were noted. In this trial, no patient receiving toremifene 20 mg daily (n = 47) or 80 mg daily (n = 47) had a QTc greater than 500 msec after reaching steady-state; of patients receiving toremifene 300 mg daily (n = 48), a QTc greater than 500 msec was reported in 10.4%. The 300 mg dose was chosen to cover expected exposures that may result from potential drug interactions and hepatic impairment. A QTc increase of more than 60 msec was reported in 4.3% of patients receiving toremifene 80 mg daily and in 89.6% of patients receiving 300 mg daily. The mean change in QTc interval was 7 msec (90% CI, 0.9 to 13.6 msec) for patients receiving 20 mg daily, 26 msec (90% CI, 21.1 to 31.2 msec) for patients receiving 80 mg daily, and 65 msec (90% CI, 60.1 to 69.2 msec) for patients receiving 300 mg daily. In one randomized clinical trials, arrhythmia or arrhythmia exacerbation occurred in 1.5% of patients treated with toremifene at the recommended dosing compared with less than 1% of patients receiving tamoxifen 40 mg daily.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      arrhythmia exacerbation
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      QT prolongation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anorexia, constipation, nausea, vomiting
    General Information
    In a randomized clinical trial, nausea (14% vs. 15%) and vomiting (2% vs. 4%) were among the most common adverse reactions reported in patients treated with toremifene (n = 221) compared with tamoxifen (n = 215); nausea was more common with higher doses of toremifene. Across 3 clinical trials, patients who received toremifene reported anorexia and constipation.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    endometrial hyperplasia, vaginal bleeding, vaginal discharge
    General Information
    All patients should have baseline and annual gynecological examinations. Endometrial cancer, endometrial hypertrophy, endometrial hyperplasia, and uterine polyps have been reported in patients treated with toremifene. In a randomized clinical trial, vaginal discharge occurred in 13% of patients receiving toremifene therapy (n = 221) compared with 16% treated with tamoxifen (n = 215); vaginal bleeding was reported in 2% vs. 4% of patients, respectively.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      vaginal bleeding
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vaginal discharge
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      endometrial hyperplasia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    asthenia, ataxia, depression, dizziness, paresis, tremor, vertigo
    General Information
    Dizziness was reported in 9% of metastatic breast cancer patients treated with toremifene (n = 221) in a randomized clinical trial compared with 7% of patients who received tamoxifen (n = 215). Additional nervous system or psychiatric adverse events reported with toremifene therapy across 3 clinical trials include depression, paresis, tremor, vertigo, asthenia, incoordination, and ataxia.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      depression
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      paresis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      tremor
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      vertigo
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      ataxia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    angina, heart failure, myocardial infarction
    General Information
    Serious cardiac adverse events were similar in patients treated with toremifene (n = 592) compared with tamoxifen (n = 565) in three randomized clinical trials, including heart failure (less than or equal to 1% vs. less than or equal to 1.5%), myocardial infarction (less than or equal to 1% vs. less than or equal to 1.5%), and angina pectoris (less than or equal to 1% for each treatment).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      angina
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      heart failure
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      myocardial infarction
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    leukopenia, thrombocytopenia
    General Information
    Leukopenia and thrombocytopenia were reported rarely during clinical trials with toremifene.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      leukopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    alopecia, pruritus, skin discoloration
    General Information
    Skin and soft tissue adverse events reported during toremifene clinical trials include skin discoloration, dermatitis, pruritus, and alopecia.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      alopecia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      skin discoloration
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    hypertriglyceridemia
    General Information
    Hypertriglyceridemia has been reported in postmarketing experience with toremifene.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypertriglyceridemia
      Severity
      Moderate

Description
  Text
  Toremifene is an oral nonsteroidal antiestrogen for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer in postmenopausal women. It is a derivative of tamoxifen, which is also an antiestrogen. Toremifene is as effective as tamoxifen in treating metastatic breast cancer; cross-resistance has been suggested. Toremifene may also have a more favorable effect on lipid levels than tamoxifen. In one study, toremifene increased high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol serum concentrations whereas tamoxifen decreased HDL cholesterol serum concentrations. Toremifene has been associated with QT prolongation, and is contraindicated in patients with congenital/acquired QT prolongation (long QT syndrome), uncorrected hypokalemia, or uncorrected hypomagnesemia. The most common adverse reactions are hot flashes, sweating, nausea and vaginal discharge.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Toremifene is a nonsteroidal triphenylethylene derivative that competes with estrogen for binding sites in cancer cells, thereby blocking the growth-stimulating effects of estrogen in the tumor; additional mechanisms which do not involve estrogen receptors may also be involved. Toremifene also promotes the production of transforming growth factor beta (TGF beta), an inhibitory growth factor. Transforming growth factor beta may cause growth retardation and tumor regression by enhancing cell death (apoptosis) and/or arresting cell proliferation. In some postmenopausal women, toremifene causes a decrease in the estradiol-induced vaginal cornification index, indicative of its antiestrogenic activity; however, it also has estrogenic activity as shown by decreases in serum gonadotropin concentrations (FSH and LH).

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Following oral administration, toremifene is well absorbed; food does not influence absorption. Peak plasma concentrations are obtained within 3 hours (Tmax). The pharmacokinetics of toremifene are linear after a single oral dose (range, 10 mg to 680 mg); after multiple dosing, dose proportionality was observed for doses ranging from 10 mg to 400 mg. Steady-state concentrations were reached in approximately 4 to 6 weeks.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    The mean elimination half-life of toremifene was increased by less than 2-fold in patients with hepatic impairment (cirrhosis or fibrosis) (n = 10) compared to subjects with normal hepatic function; the pharmacokinetics of N-demethyltoremifene were unchanged in these patients. Ten patients on enzyme-inducing anticonvulsants showed a 2-fold increase in clearance and a decrease in the elimination half-life of toremifene.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Renal impairment did not affect the pharmacokinetics of toremifene or N-demethyltoremifene.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    The elimination half-life was increased to 7.2 days and the Vd increased to 627 L when toremifene was administered to elderly females (n = 10) compared with healthy young males (n = 10; half-life, 4.2 days; Vd, 457 L); clearance and AUC were unchanged. In three randomized clinical trials where the median ages ranged from 60 to 66 years, the safety and efficacy of toremifene were not significantly affected by age.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    The pharmacokinetics of toremifene in patients of different ethnicity has not been studied. No significant differences in the safety or efficacy of toremifene have been attributed to ethnicity in clinical trials.
  Text
  Toremifene is administered orally. It is greater than 99.5% protein bound, primarily to albumin; the volume of distribution (Vd) is 580 L. The plasma concentration time profile of toremifene declines biexponentially after absorption, with a mean distribution half-life of approximately 4 hours, and an elimination half-life of approximately 5 days. The elimination half-life of the major metabolites, N-demethyltoremifene and (Deaminohydroxy) toremifene, were 6 days and 4 days, respectively. The mean total clearance of toremifene was approximately 5 L/hour. Elimination is slow, in part because of enterohepatic circulation. Toremifene is primarily eliminated in the feces, with about 10% in the urine during a 1-week period.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 (CYP) isoenzymes: CYP2C9, CYP3A4
Toremifene is extensively metabolized, primarily by CYP3A4, to N-demethyltoremifene which is also antiestrogenic but with weak in vivo antitumor potency; serum concentrations of the primarily metabolite, N-demethyltoremifene, are 2 to 4 times higher than toremifene at steady state. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor (ketoconazole) increased the Cmax and AUC of toremifene by 1.4-fold and 2.9-fold, respectively; the Cmax and AUC of N-demethyltoremifene were reduced by 56% and 20%, respectively. Toremifene is also a weak inhibitor of CYP2C9. Coadministration with toremifene increased the Cmax and AUC of tolbutamide, a CYP2C9 substrate, by less than 30%; a reduction of similar magnitude was observed for the Cmax and AUC of hydroxytolbutamide and carboxytolbutamide.
 
Autoinduction of CYP3A4 by toremifene also likely occurs; however, this is unlikely to result in clinically relevant changes in the exposure of sensitive CYP3A4 substrates. After multiple doses, plasma exposure of toremifene was approximately 14% lower on day 17 compared to day 5 (n = 20); exposure to N-demethyltoremifene was approximately 80% higher on day 17 compared to day 5. Coadministration of toremifene (steady-state) with midazolam (a CYP3A4 substrate) on day 6 did not result in relevant increases in the Cmax or AUC of midazolam and alpha-hydroxymidazolam. After coadministration on day 18 of toremifene, the Cmax and AUC of midazolam and alpha-hydroxymidazolam were decreased by less than 20%.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
Hazardous Drugs Classification
NIOSH 2024 List: Table 2
Observe and exercise appropriate precautions for handling, preparation, administration, and disposal of hazardous drugs.
Use gloves to handle; double chemotherapy gloves and a protective gown are needed if manipulation is necessary. Cutting, crushing, or otherwise manipulating tablets/capsules will increase exposure.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    May be given without regard to meals.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    60 mg PO once daily.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    60 mg PO once daily.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Dosage adjustments are not recommended.
  Renal Impairment
  Dosage adjustments are not recommended.
