=== Gemfibrozil (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 274)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Gemfibrozil is a fibric acid antilipemic agent similar to clofibrate, but possesses biologic actions distinct from those of clofibrate.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 1200 mg/day PO, up to 1600 mg/day PO has been studied.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): cholecystitis, cholelithiasis, cholestasis, colitis, elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatoma, hyperbilirubinemia, jaundice, pancreatitis, weight loss, confusion, depression, dizziness, fatigue, headache, impotence (erectile dysfunction), libido decrease, neuritis, paresthesias, syncope, arthralgia, elevated creatine kinase, lupus-like symptoms, myalgia, myasthenia, myopathy, rhabdomyolysis, synovitis, vasculitis, anemia

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Gemfibrozil is contraindicated in patients with a hypersensitivity to gemfibrozil. Gemfibrozil is contraindicated in patients with hepatic dysfunction or hepatic disease, including primary biliary cirrhosis.

Brand Names
  - Lopid

Dosage Forms
  - Gemfibrozil 600mg Oral tablet
  - Gemfibrozil Bulk powder
  - Lopid 600mg Tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  General Information
  Fibrates are expected to lower triglyceride concentrations by 30% to 50%.
Individuals should be placed on an appropriate lipid-lowering diet prior to and while receiving gemfibrozil therapy. Excess body weight, excess alcohol intake, dietary indiscretion, and poor glycemic control are important factors in conditions of elevated triglycerides and should be addressed prior to initiating fenofibrate therapy.
Identify other causes (e.g. diabetes mellitus, hypothyroidism, or medications) of hypertriglyceridemia and manage as appropriate.
  Indications
    Related Indications
      Heading
      for the treatment of Type IV and V hypertriglyceridemia in patients who present a risk of pancreatitis and who do not respond adequately to dietary therapy
      Routes
        Heading
        Oral dosage
        Route Age Groups
          Heading
          Adults
          Dosage Description
          600 mg PO twice daily. Monitor lipid concentrations as early as 4 weeks after initiation. Discontinue gemfibrozil if lipid response is inadequate after 3 months of therapy.
      Heading
      for the treatment of Type IIb hypercholesterolemia without history of or symptoms of existing coronary heart disease who have had an inadequate response to weight loss, dietary therapy, exercise, and other pharmacological agents and who have elevated LDL-C and triglycerides and low HDL-C to reduce the risk of developing coronary heart disease
      Routes
        Heading
        Oral dosage
        Route Age Groups
          Heading
          Adults
          Dosage Description
          600 mg PO twice daily. Monitor lipid concentrations as early as 4 weeks after initiation. Discontinue gemfibrozil if lipid response is inadequate after 3 months of therapy.
    Routes
    Heading
    For the treatment of hypercholesterolemia or hyperlipoproteinemia and hypertriglyceridemia as an adjunct to diet

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Gemfibrozil is contraindicated in patients with a hypersensitivity to gemfibrozil.
 
Gemfibrozil is contraindicated in patients with hepatic dysfunction or hepatic disease, including primary biliary cirrhosis. Gemfibrozil is primarily eliminated by metabolism and drug clearance may be decreased in patients with hepatic impairment (see Dosage). In patients with biliary cirrhosis, further elevations of serum cholesterol can occur. Gemfibrozil is also contraindicated in patients with pre-existing gallbladder disease. Gemfibrozil is related to clofibrate, which has been associated with gallbladder disease and cholelithiasis. Cases of cholelithiasis have been reported during gemfibrozil therapy.
 
Gemfibrozil is contraindicated in patients with renal disease associated with severe renal impairment or renal failure. There have been reports of worsening renal insufficiency with gemfibrozil therapy in patients with baseline serum creatinine > 2 mg/dL. In such patients, the use of alternative therapy should be considered against the risks and benefits of a lower dose.
 
The safety and efficacy in children under 18 years of age have not been established.
 
Gemfibrozil is a pregnancy category C drug. Gemfibrozil has been shown to have detrimental effects on fetal growth and development in laboratory animals. Adequate or well-controlled studies have not been done in humans. Use of gemfibrozil during pregnancy should be avoided unless the potential benefits justify the potential risks to the fetus.
 
It is not known if gemfibrozil is excreted into breast-milk. Animal studies have indicated that gemfibrozil has tumorigenicity potential. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the risk of potential infant drug exposure, and the risk of an untreated or inadequately treated condition. If a breast-feeding infant experiences an adverse effect related to a maternally ingested drug, healthcare providers are encouraged to report the adverse effect to the FDA.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    hepatic failure, primary biliary cholangitis
    General Information
    Gemfibrozil is contraindicated in individuals with hepatic failure or dysfunction, including primary biliary cholangitis. Monitor liver function, including bilirubin, aspartate aminotransferase (AST), and alanine aminotransferase (ALT) during gemfibrozil therapy.
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    Gemfibrozil is contraindicated in individuals with renal failure and should be used with caution in individuals with renal impairment. There have been reports of worsening renal insufficiency with gemfibrozil therapy in patients with baseline serum creatinine of more than 2 mg/dL. In such individuals, the use of alternative therapy should be considered against the risks and benefits of a lower dose.
    Headline
    gallbladder disease
    General Information
    Gemfibrozil is contraindicated in individuals with pre-existing gallbladder disease since it may exacerbate this condition. Gemfibrozil increases cholesterol excretion and decreases bile acid excretion into bile resulting in cholesterol saturation and an increased risk of cholelithiasis and cholesterol gallstones. If gallstones develop, discontinue gemfibrozil therapy.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    In general, avoid the use of gemfibrozil during pregnancy. Fibrates may be considered during the second and third trimesters for individuals with severe hypertriglyceridemia to prevent pancreatitis, only if the benefit outweighs the risk. There are no adequate and well-controlled studies regarding the use of gemfibrozil in pregnant people. In animal studies, gemfibrozil has been shown to produce adverse effects at doses between 0.5 and 3 times the human dose. Reactions include a decrease in conception rate, an increase in stillborn births, a decrease in litter size, a slight reduction in pup weight, dose-related skeletal variations, anophthalmia, and suppression of pup weight during lactation.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking gemfibrozil and for 5 days after the last dose, due to the potential for serious adverse reactions in the breastfed child (e.g., disruption of infant lipid metabolism).  It is not known if gemfibrozil is present in human milk. If pharmacotherapy is necessary for the breast-feeding patient, consider a nonabsorbable resin such as cholestyramine, colesevelam, or colestipol. These agents do not enter the bloodstream and therefore will not be excreted during lactation. However, resins bind fat-soluble vitamins, and prolonged use may result in deficiencies of these vitamins in the breast-feeding individual and the breastfed child.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    In general, avoid the use of gemfibrozil during pregnancy. Fibrates may be considered during the second and third trimesters for individuals with severe hypertriglyceridemia to prevent pancreatitis, only if the benefit outweighs the risk. There are no adequate and well-controlled studies regarding the use of gemfibrozil in pregnant people. In animal studies, gemfibrozil has been shown to produce adverse effects at doses between 0.5 and 3 times the human dose. Reactions include a decrease in conception rate, an increase in stillborn births, a decrease in litter size, a slight reduction in pup weight, dose-related skeletal variations, anophthalmia, and suppression of pup weight during lactation.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking gemfibrozil and for 5 days after the last dose, due to the potential for serious adverse reactions in the breastfed child (e.g., disruption of infant lipid metabolism).  It is not known if gemfibrozil is present in human milk. If pharmacotherapy is necessary for the breast-feeding patient, consider a nonabsorbable resin such as cholestyramine, colesevelam, or colestipol. These agents do not enter the bloodstream and therefore will not be excreted during lactation. However, resins bind fat-soluble vitamins, and prolonged use may result in deficiencies of these vitamins in the breast-feeding individual and the breastfed child.

Interactions
Alogliptin; Pioglitazone: (Major) Do not exceed 15 mg/day of pioglitazone when coadministered with gemfibrozil. Coadministration may increase the exposure of pioglitazone, increasing the risk for hypoglycemia. Pioglitazone is a CYP2C8 substrate and gemfibrozil is a strong CYP2C8 inhibitor. The exposure to pioglitazone is increased approximately 3-fold when combined with gemfibrozil. Fibric acid derivatives may also enhance the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents through increased insulin sensitivity and decreased glucagon secretion.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Major) Use caution and the lowest atorvastatin dose necessary if coadministration with gemfibrozil is necessary due to an increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Clinical practice guidelines state the concurrent use of gemfibrozil and atorvastatin is acceptable if clinically indicated and fenofibrate or fenofibric acid is not an option. Carefully weigh the potential benefits and risk of combined therapy. Use the lowest possible atorvastatin dose. Closely monitor patients for signs and symptoms of muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness especially during the initial months of therapy and during upward titration of either drug. There is no assurance that periodic monitoring of creatinine phosphokinase (CPK) will prevent the occurrence of myopathy.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Moderate) Coadministration may result in an increase in olmesartan exposure. A dose reduction of olmesartan may be required if used concomitantly with gemfibrozil. Use olmesartan and gemfibrozil together with caution. Olmesartan is a substrate of the OATP1B1 transporter. Gemfibrozil inhibits OATP1B1.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Minor) Coadministration of valsartan and gemfibrozil may increase systemic exposure to valsartan. Valsartan is a substrate of the hepatic uptake transporter OATP1B1 and gemfibrozil is an inhibitor of OATP. Patients should be monitored for adverse effects of valsartan.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadministration of valsartan and gemfibrozil may increase systemic exposure to valsartan. Valsartan is a substrate of the hepatic uptake transporter OATP1B1 and gemfibrozil is an inhibitor of OATP. Patients should be monitored for adverse effects of valsartan.
Apalutamide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in apalutamide-related adverse reactions if coadministration with gemfibrozil is necessary. Consider reducing the dose of apalutamide if necessary based on tolerability in patients experiencing grade 3 or higher adverse reactions or intolerable toxicities. Apalutamide is a CYP2C8 substrate and gemfibrozil is a strong CYP2C8 inhibitor. Coadministration with gemfibrozil decreased the Cmax of single-dose apalutamide by 21% but increased the AUC by 68%; strong CYP2C8 inhibition is expected to increase the steady-state apalutamide Cmax by 32% and AUC by 44%. The predicted steady-state exposure of the active moieties (unbound apalutamide plus potency-adjusted unbound N-desmethyl apalutamide) is predicted to increase by 23%.
Apixaban: (Moderate) Use apixaban and gemfibrozil together with caution. CYP2C8 plays a minor role in the metabolism of apixaban, and gemfibrozil is a strong CYP2C8 inhibitor. Coadministration may result in an increase in apixaban exposure. A dose reduction of apixaban may be required if used concomitantly with gemfibrozil.
Atogepant: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 or 30 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine or 30 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine if coadministered with gemfibrozil. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a substrate of OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 and gemfibrozil is an OATP inhibitor. Coadministration with an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor resulted in a 2.85-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure and a 2.23-fold increase in atogepant peak concentration.
Atorvastatin: (Major) Use caution and the lowest atorvastatin dose necessary if coadministration with gemfibrozil is necessary due to an increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Clinical practice guidelines state the concurrent use of gemfibrozil and atorvastatin is acceptable if clinically indicated and fenofibrate or fenofibric acid is not an option. Carefully weigh the potential benefits and risk of combined therapy. Use the lowest possible atorvastatin dose. Closely monitor patients for signs and symptoms of muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness especially during the initial months of therapy and during upward titration of either drug. There is no assurance that periodic monitoring of creatinine phosphokinase (CPK) will prevent the occurrence of myopathy.
Aztreonam; Avibactam: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in avibactam-related adverse effects if concomitant use with gemfibrozil is necessary. Concomitant use may increase avibactam exposure. Avibactam is an OAT3 substrate and gemfibrozil is a OAT3 inhibitor.
Belinostat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of belinostat and gemfibrozil. If concomitant use is required, reduce the dose of belinostat by 25% (i.e., from 1,000 mg/m2 to 750 mg/m2; from 750 mg/m2 to 562.5 mg/m2; interrupt 500 mg/m2). Concomitant use is expected to increase belinostat exposure which may increase the risk for belinostat-related adverse effects. Belinostat is a UGT1A1 substrate and gemfibrozil is a UGT1A1 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another UGT1A1 inhibitor increased belinostat overall exposure by 1.4-fold.
Bempedoic Acid: (Moderate) Monitor triglycerides and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) during coadministration of bempedoic acid and gemfibrozil. Concomitant use may cause an increase in triglycerides or HDL-C; assess triglyceride and HDL-C concentrations 4 weeks after initial concomitant use and periodically thereafter. If elevated triglycerides and/or HDL-C occur, consider discontinuation of bempedoic acid or gemfibrozil.
Bempedoic Acid; Ezetimibe: (Major) The safety and effectiveness of ezetimibe when coadministered with gemfibrozil have not been established. Fibrates may increase cholesterol excretion into the bile, leading to cholelithiasis. Coadministration of ezetimibe with gemfibrozil is not recommended. In a preclinical study in dogs, ezetimibe increased cholesterol in the gallbladder bile. The incidence rates for cholecystectomy have been reported as 0.6% for fenofibrate monotherapy and 1.7% for combination therapy (ezetimibe plus fenofibrate), respectively. According to the manufacturer, the number of patients exposed to combination therapy versus fenofibrate or ezetimibe monotherapy has been inadequate to assess gallbladder disease risk. If cholelithiasis is suspected in a patient receiving ezetimibe and fenofibrate, gallbladder studies are indicated and alternative lipid-lowering therapy should be considered. In a pharmacokinetic study, concomitant fenofibrate or gemfibrozil administration increased total ezetimibe concentrations by approximately 1.5- or 1.7-fold, respectively. However, ezetimibe does not affect the pharmacokinetics of fenofibrate or the bioavailability of gemfibrozil. (Moderate) Monitor triglycerides and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) during coadministration of bempedoic acid and gemfibrozil. Concomitant use may cause an increase in triglycerides or HDL-C; assess triglyceride and HDL-C concentrations 4 weeks after initial concomitant use and periodically thereafter. If elevated triglycerides and/or HDL-C occur, consider discontinuation of bempedoic acid or gemfibrozil.
Bexarotene: (Major) Concomitant administration of bexarotene capsules and gemfibrozil is not recommended; concurrent administration results in increased bexarotene plasma concentrations. Due to low systemic exposure, clinically significant drug interactions are unlikely with bexarotene topical gel.
Bile acid sequestrants: (Moderate) Separate the administration of gemfibrozil and bile acid sequestrants by 2 hours if concomitant use is necessary. Simultaneous administration interferes with gemfibrozil absorption and has been observed to reduce gemfibrozil overall exposure by 30% which may reduce gemfibrozil efficacy.
Bosentan: (Moderate) Use bosentan and gemfibrozil together with caution. Bosentan is a substrate of the OATP1B1 transporter. Gemfibrozil inhibits OATP1B1. Coadministration may result in an increase in bosentan exposure. A dose reduction of bosentan may be required if used concomitantly with gemfibrozil.
Brincidofovir: (Moderate) Postpone the administration of gemfibrozil for at least three hours after brincidofovir administration and increase monitoring for brincidofovir-related adverse reactions (i.e., elevated hepatic enzymes and bilirubin, diarrhea, other gastrointestinal adverse events) if concomitant use of brincidofovir and gemfibrozil is necessary. Brincidofovir is an OATP1B1 substrate and gemfibrozil is an OATP1B1 inhibitor. In a drug interaction study, the mean AUC and Cmax of brincidofovir increased by 374% and 269%, respectively, when administered with another OATP1B1 inhibitor.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Moderate) Consider a meloxicam dose reduction and monitor for adverse reactions if coadministration with gemfibrozil is necessary. Concurrent use may increase meloxicam exposure. Meloxicam is a CYP2C9 substrate and gemfibrozil is a weak CYP2C9 inhibitor.
carBAMazepine: (Moderate) Use carbamazepine and gemfibrozil together with caution. Carbamazepine is a substrate of CYP2C8, and gemfibrozil is a strong CYP2C8 inhibitor. Coadministration may result in a significant increase in carbamazepine exposure. A dose reduction of carbamazepine may be required if used concomitantly with gemfibrozil.
cefTAZidime; Avibactam: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in avibactam-related adverse effects if concomitant use with gemfibrozil is necessary. Concomitant use may increase avibactam exposure. Avibactam is an OAT3 substrate and gemfibrozil is a OAT3 inhibitor.
Cholestyramine: (Moderate) Separate the administration of gemfibrozil and bile acid sequestrants by 2 hours if concomitant use is necessary. Simultaneous administration interferes with gemfibrozil absorption and has been observed to reduce gemfibrozil overall exposure by 30% which may reduce gemfibrozil efficacy.
Clofarabine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine, a substrate of OAT1 and OAT3, and gemfibrozil, an inhibitor of OAT protein (OATP), may result in increased clofarabine levels. Therefore, monitor for signs of clofarabine toxicity such as gastrointestinal toxicity (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, mucosal inflammation), hematologic toxicity, and skin toxicity (e.g., hand and foot syndrome, rash, pruritus) in patients also receiving OATP inhibitors.
Colchicine: (Moderate) Monitor for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis if concomitant use of colchicine and gemfibrozil is necessary. Elderly patients and those with renal dysfunction are at increased risk. Cases of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis have been reported with concomitant use.
Colesevelam: (Moderate) Separate the administration of gemfibrozil and bile acid sequestrants by 2 hours if concomitant use is necessary. Simultaneous administration interferes with gemfibrozil absorption and has been observed to reduce gemfibrozil overall exposure by 30% which may reduce gemfibrozil efficacy.
Colestipol: (Moderate) Separate the administration of gemfibrozil and bile acid sequestrants by 2 hours if concomitant use is necessary. Simultaneous administration interferes with gemfibrozil absorption and has been observed to reduce gemfibrozil overall exposure by 30% which may reduce gemfibrozil efficacy.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) The use of fibric acid derivatives, such as gemfibrozil, may potentiate the risk for renal dysfunction with cyclosporine. During the concomitant use of a drug that may exhibit additive or synergistic renal impairment with cyclosporine, close monitoring of renal function (in particular serum creatinine) and cyclosporine levels should be performed. If a significant impairment of renal function occurs, the dosage of the coadministered drug should be reduced or an alternative treatment considered.
Dabrafenib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of dabrafenib and gemfibrozil; dabrafenib exposure increased by 47% when these drugs were administered together in a drug interaction study. Use of an alternate agent in place of gemfibrozil is recommended. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, monitor patients for dabrafenib toxicity (e.g., skin toxicity, ocular toxicity, and cardiotoxicity). Dabrafenib is a CYP2C8 substrate; gemfibrozil is a strong CYP2C8 inhibitor. The dabrafenib AUC value increased by 47% when dabrafenib 75 mg PO twice daily was administered with gemfibrozil 600 mg twice daily for 4 days in a drug interaction study; there were no change in the AUC values of the metabolites, hydroxy-dabrafenib and desmethyl-dabrafenib.
Daprodustat: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of daprodustat and gemfibrozil is contraindicated due the risk of increased daprodustat exposure which may increase the risk of daprodustat-related adverse reactions. Daprodustat is a CYP2C8 substrate and gemfibrozil is a strong CYP2C8 inhibitor. Concomitant use increased daprodustat exposure by 18.6-fold.
Diclofenac: (Moderate) If possible, avoid concurrent use of diclofenac with inhibitors of CYP2C9, such as gemfibrozil; if coadministration is required, do not exceed a total daily diclofenac dose of 100 mg. When used with a CYP2C9 inhibitor the systemic exposure to diclofenac (a CYP2C9 substrate) may increase, potentially resulting in adverse events.
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Moderate) If possible, avoid concurrent use of diclofenac with inhibitors of CYP2C9, such as gemfibrozil; if coadministration is required, do not exceed a total daily diclofenac dose of 100 mg. When used with a CYP2C9 inhibitor the systemic exposure to diclofenac (a CYP2C9 substrate) may increase, potentially resulting in adverse events.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Use naproxen and gemfibrozil together with caution. Naproxen is a substrate of CYP2C8, and gemfibrozil is a strong CYP2C8 inhibitor. Coadministration may result in a significant increase in naproxen exposure. A dose reduction of naproxen may be required if used concomitantly with gemfibrozil.
Doxercalciferol: (Moderate) CYP450 enzyme inhibitors, like gemfibrozil, may inhibit the 25-hydroxylation of doxercalciferol, thereby decreasing the formation of the active metabolite and thus, decreasing efficacy. Patients should be monitored for a decrease in efficacy if CYP450 inhibitors are coadministered with doxercalciferol.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of dronabinol with gemfibrozil is necessary, and monitor for an increase in dronabinol-related adverse reactions (e.g., feeling high, dizziness, confusion, somnolence). Dronabinol is a CYP2C9 and 3A4 substrate; gemfibrozil is a weak inhibitor of CYP2C9. Concomitant use may result in elevated plasma concentrations of dronabinol.
Elafibranor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elafibranor and gemfibrozil due to the risk for increased elafibranor exposure which may increase the risk for elafibranor-related adverse effects. Elafibranor is a CYP2C8 substrate and gemfibrozil is a strong CYP2C8 inhibitor.
Elagolix: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of elagolix and strong organic anion transporting polypeptide (OATP) 1B1 inhibitors such as gemfibrozil is contraindicated. Use of elagolix with drugs that inhibit OATP1B1 may increase elagolix plasma concentrations. Elagolix is a substrate of CYP3A, P-gp, and OATP1B1. Another OATP1B1 potent inhibitor increased elagolix AUC in the range of 2- to 5.58-fold. Increased elagolix concentrations increase the risk for dose-related side effects, including loss of bone mineral density.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of elagolix and strong organic anion transporting polypeptide (OATP) 1B1 inhibitors such as gemfibrozil is contraindicated. Use of elagolix with drugs that inhibit OATP1B1 may increase elagolix plasma concentrations. Elagolix is a substrate of CYP3A, P-gp, and OATP1B1. Another OATP1B1 potent inhibitor increased elagolix AUC in the range of 2- to 5.58-fold. Increased elagolix concentrations increase the risk for dose-related side effects, including loss of bone mineral density.
Elbasvir; Grazoprevir: (Contraindicated) Concurrent administration of grazoprevir with gemfibrozil is contraindicated. Use of these drugs together is expected to significantly increase the plasma concentrations of grazoprevir, and may result in adverse effects (i.e., elevated ALT concentrations). Gemfibrozil is an inhibitor of the organic anion transporting polypeptide (OATP); grazoprevir is a substrate of OATP1B1/3.
Eltrombopag: (Moderate) Eltrombopag is metabolized by CYP2C8. The significance of administering inhibitors of CYP2C8, such as gemfibrozil, on the systemic exposure of eltrombopag has not been established. Monitor patients for signs of eltrombopag toxicity if these drugs are coadministered.
Eluxadoline: (Major) When administered concurrently with gemfibrozil, the dose of eluxadoline must be reduced to 75 mg PO twice daily, and the patient should be closely monitored for eluxadoline-related adverse effects (i.e., decreased mental and physical acuity). Eluxadoline is a substrate of the organic anion-transporting peptide (OATP1B1); gemfibrozil is an OATP1B1/2B1 inhibitor. Advise patients against driving or operating machinery until the combine effects of these drugs on the individual patient is known.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of gemfibrozil with enzalutamide if possible due to increased enzalutamide exposure. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of enzalutamide to 80 mg once daily; the original dose of enzalutamide may be resumed when gemfibrozil is discontinued. Enzalutamide is a CYP2C8 substrate and gemfibrozil is a strong CYP2C8 inhibitor. Coadministration with gemfibrozil increased the composite AUC of enzalutamide plus N-desmethyl enzalutamide by 2.2-fold.
Etrasimod: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and gemfibrozil in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP2C8 substrate and gemfibrozil is a strong CYP2C8 inhibitor.
Ezetimibe: (Major) The safety and effectiveness of ezetimibe when coadministered with gemfibrozil have not been established. Fibrates may increase cholesterol excretion into the bile, leading to cholelithiasis. Coadministration of ezetimibe with gemfibrozil is not recommended. In a preclinical study in dogs, ezetimibe increased cholesterol in the gallbladder bile. The incidence rates for cholecystectomy have been reported as 0.6% for fenofibrate monotherapy and 1.7% for combination therapy (ezetimibe plus fenofibrate), respectively. According to the manufacturer, the number of patients exposed to combination therapy versus fenofibrate or ezetimibe monotherapy has been inadequate to assess gallbladder disease risk. If cholelithiasis is suspected in a patient receiving ezetimibe and fenofibrate, gallbladder studies are indicated and alternative lipid-lowering therapy should be considered. In a pharmacokinetic study, concomitant fenofibrate or gemfibrozil administration increased total ezetimibe concentrations by approximately 1.5- or 1.7-fold, respectively. However, ezetimibe does not affect the pharmacokinetics of fenofibrate or the bioavailability of gemfibrozil.
Ezetimibe; Simvastatin: (Contraindicated) The use of simvastatin with gemfibrozil is contraindicated due to an increased risk for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Gemfibrozil can cause myopathy when used alone, and the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased by concomitant use with simvastatin. In addition, the AUC and Cmax of simvastatin are increased with concomitant gemfibrozil use. This may be due to inhibition of OATP1B1 by gemfibrozil; simvastatin is a substrate of OATP1B1. (Major) The safety and effectiveness of ezetimibe when coadministered with gemfibrozil have not been established. Fibrates may increase cholesterol excretion into the bile, leading to cholelithiasis. Coadministration of ezetimibe with gemfibrozil is not recommended. In a preclinical study in dogs, ezetimibe increased cholesterol in the gallbladder bile. The incidence rates for cholecystectomy have been reported as 0.6% for fenofibrate monotherapy and 1.7% for combination therapy (ezetimibe plus fenofibrate), respectively. According to the manufacturer, the number of patients exposed to combination therapy versus fenofibrate or ezetimibe monotherapy has been inadequate to assess gallbladder disease risk. If cholelithiasis is suspected in a patient receiving ezetimibe and fenofibrate, gallbladder studies are indicated and alternative lipid-lowering therapy should be considered. In a pharmacokinetic study, concomitant fenofibrate or gemfibrozil administration increased total ezetimibe concentrations by approximately 1.5- or 1.7-fold, respectively. However, ezetimibe does not affect the pharmacokinetics of fenofibrate or the bioavailability of gemfibrozil.
Fluvastatin: (Major) Avoid the concomitant administration of fluvastatin and gemfibrozil. The risk of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis increases when HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors are administered concurrently with gemfibrozil. The serious risk of myopathy or rhabdomyolysis should be weighed carefully against the benefits of combined 'statin' and fibrate therapy; there is no assurance that periodic monitoring of CK will prevent the occurrence of severe myopathy and renal damage.
Ganaxolone: (Moderate) Monitor for ganaxolone-related adverse effects if concomitant use with gemfibrozil is necessary. For those on a stable maintenance dose of ganaxolone, consider a ganaxolone dosage reduction. Concomitant use may increase ganaxolone exposure. Ganaxolone is a UGT substrate and gemfibrozil is a UGT inhibitor.
Glecaprevir; Pibrentasvir: (Moderate) Caution is advised with the coadministration of glecaprevir and gemfibrozil as coadministration may increase serum concentrations of glecaprevir and increase the risk of adverse effects. Glecaprevir is a substrate of organic anion transporting polypeptide (OATP)1B1; gemfibrozil is an inhibitor of OATP1B1.
Glimepiride: (Moderate) There is an increased risk for hypoglycemia when gemfibrozil is used with sulfonylureas. Dose reductions and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required. Gemfibrozil is a potent inhibitor of CYP2C9, which metabolizes many of the sulfonylureas. In addition, glyburide is a substrate of the OATP1B1 transporter and gemfibrozil inhibits OATP1B1. Due to the effects of gemfibrozil on sulfonylurea metabolic pathways, an increase in sulfonylurea exposure may occur. Fibric acid derivatives may also enhance the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents through increased insulin sensitivity and increased glucagon secretion.
glipiZIDE: (Moderate) There is an increased risk for hypoglycemia when gemfibrozil is used with sulfonylureas. Dose reductions and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required. Gemfibrozil is a potent inhibitor of CYP2C9, which metabolizes many of the sulfonylureas. In addition, glyburide is a substrate of the OATP1B1 transporter and gemfibrozil inhibits OATP1B1. Due to the effects of gemfibrozil on sulfonylurea metabolic pathways, an increase in sulfonylurea exposure may occur. Fibric acid derivatives may also enhance the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents through increased insulin sensitivity and increased glucagon secretion.
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) There is an increased risk for hypoglycemia when gemfibrozil is used with sulfonylureas. Dose reductions and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required. Gemfibrozil is a potent inhibitor of CYP2C9, which metabolizes many of the sulfonylureas. In addition, glyburide is a substrate of the OATP1B1 transporter and gemfibrozil inhibits OATP1B1. Due to the effects of gemfibrozil on sulfonylurea metabolic pathways, an increase in sulfonylurea exposure may occur. Fibric acid derivatives may also enhance the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents through increased insulin sensitivity and increased glucagon secretion.
glyBURIDE: (Moderate) There is an increased risk for hypoglycemia when gemfibrozil is used with sulfonylureas. Dose reductions and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required. Gemfibrozil is a potent inhibitor of CYP2C9, which metabolizes many of the sulfonylureas. In addition, glyburide is a substrate of the OATP1B1 transporter and gemfibrozil inhibits OATP1B1. Due to the effects of gemfibrozil on sulfonylurea metabolic pathways, an increase in sulfonylurea exposure may occur. Fibric acid derivatives may also enhance the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents through increased insulin sensitivity and increased glucagon secretion.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) There is an increased risk for hypoglycemia when gemfibrozil is used with sulfonylureas. Dose reductions and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required. Gemfibrozil is a potent inhibitor of CYP2C9, which metabolizes many of the sulfonylureas. In addition, glyburide is a substrate of the OATP1B1 transporter and gemfibrozil inhibits OATP1B1. Due to the effects of gemfibrozil on sulfonylurea metabolic pathways, an increase in sulfonylurea exposure may occur. Fibric acid derivatives may also enhance the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents through increased insulin sensitivity and increased glucagon secretion.
Insulin Aspart: (Moderate) Increase the frequency of blood glucose monitoring if concomitant use of gemfibrozil and insulin is necessary; a insulin dosage decrease may be required. Gemfibrozil alters glucose metabolism, and concomitant use may increase the risk for hypoglycemia.
Insulin Aspart; Insulin Aspart Protamine: (Moderate) Increase the frequency of blood glucose monitoring if concomitant use of gemfibrozil and insulin is necessary; a insulin dosage decrease may be required. Gemfibrozil alters glucose metabolism, and concomitant use may increase the risk for hypoglycemia.
Insulin Degludec: (Moderate) Increase the frequency of blood glucose monitoring if concomitant use of gemfibrozil and insulin is necessary; a insulin dosage decrease may be required. Gemfibrozil alters glucose metabolism, and concomitant use may increase the risk for hypoglycemia.
Insulin Degludec; Liraglutide: (Moderate) Increase the frequency of blood glucose monitoring if concomitant use of gemfibrozil and insulin is necessary; a insulin dosage decrease may be required. Gemfibrozil alters glucose metabolism, and concomitant use may increase the risk for hypoglycemia.
Insulin Detemir: (Moderate) Increase the frequency of blood glucose monitoring if concomitant use of gemfibrozil and insulin is necessary; a insulin dosage decrease may be required. Gemfibrozil alters glucose metabolism, and concomitant use may increase the risk for hypoglycemia.
Insulin Glargine: (Moderate) Increase the frequency of blood glucose monitoring if concomitant use of gemfibrozil and insulin is necessary; a insulin dosage decrease may be required. Gemfibrozil alters glucose metabolism, and concomitant use may increase the risk for hypoglycemia.
Insulin Glargine; Lixisenatide: (Moderate) Increase the frequency of blood glucose monitoring if concomitant use of gemfibrozil and insulin is necessary; a insulin dosage decrease may be required. Gemfibrozil alters glucose metabolism, and concomitant use may increase the risk for hypoglycemia.
Insulin Glulisine: (Moderate) Increase the frequency of blood glucose monitoring if concomitant use of gemfibrozil and insulin is necessary; a insulin dosage decrease may be required. Gemfibrozil alters glucose metabolism, and concomitant use may increase the risk for hypoglycemia.
Insulin Icodec: (Moderate) Increase the frequency of blood glucose monitoring if concomitant use of gemfibrozil and insulin is necessary; a insulin dosage decrease may be required. Gemfibrozil alters glucose metabolism, and concomitant use may increase the risk for hypoglycemia.
Insulin Lispro: (Moderate) Increase the frequency of blood glucose monitoring if concomitant use of gemfibrozil and insulin is necessary; a insulin dosage decrease may be required. Gemfibrozil alters glucose metabolism, and concomitant use may increase the risk for hypoglycemia.
Insulin Lispro; Insulin Lispro Protamine: (Moderate) Increase the frequency of blood glucose monitoring if concomitant use of gemfibrozil and insulin is necessary; a insulin dosage decrease may be required. Gemfibrozil alters glucose metabolism, and concomitant use may increase the risk for hypoglycemia.
Insulin, Inhaled: (Moderate) Increase the frequency of blood glucose monitoring if concomitant use of gemfibrozil and insulin is necessary; a insulin dosage decrease may be required. Gemfibrozil alters glucose metabolism, and concomitant use may increase the risk for hypoglycemia.
Insulins: (Moderate) Increase the frequency of blood glucose monitoring if concomitant use of gemfibrozil and insulin is necessary; a insulin dosage decrease may be required. Gemfibrozil alters glucose metabolism, and concomitant use may increase the risk for hypoglycemia.
Iptacopan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iptacopan and gemfibrozil due to the risk for increased iptacopan exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Iptacopan is a CYP2C8 substrate and gemfibrozil is a strong CYP2C8 inhibitor.
Irinotecan Liposomal: (Major) Avoid administration of gemfibrozil during treatment with irinotecan unless there are no therapeutic alternatives. The active metabolite of irinotecan, SN-38, is a UGT1A1 substrate; gemfibrozil is a UGT1A1 inhibitor. Concomitant use of UGT1A1 inhibitors may increase systemic exposure to SN-38.
Irinotecan: (Major) Avoid administration of gemfibrozil during treatment with irinotecan unless there are no therapeutic alternatives. The active metabolite of irinotecan, SN-38, is a UGT1A1 substrate; gemfibrozil is a UGT1A1 inhibitor. Concomitant use of UGT1A1 inhibitors may increase systemic exposure to SN-38.
Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Increase the frequency of blood glucose monitoring if concomitant use of gemfibrozil and insulin is necessary; a insulin dosage decrease may be required. Gemfibrozil alters glucose metabolism, and concomitant use may increase the risk for hypoglycemia.
Letermovir: (Moderate) Closely monitor for letermovir-related adverse events (i.e., tachycardia, atrial fibrillation, and gastrointestinal events) if administered with gemfibrozil, as use of these drugs together may result in increased letermovir plasma concentration. Letermovir is a substrate of the organic anion-transporting polypeptide (OATP1B1); gemfibrozil is an inhibitor of OATP1B1.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lonafarnib and gemfibrozil; concurrent use may increase the exposure of lonafarnib and the risk of adverse effects. If coadministration is unavoidable, closely monitor patients for lonafarnib-related adverse reactions. Lonafarnib is a CYP2C9 substrate and gemfibrozil is a CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Loperamide: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with gemfibrozil. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a CYP2C8 substrate and gemfibrozil is a strong CYP2C8 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP2C8 inhibitor increased loperamide exposure by 2.2-fold.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with gemfibrozil. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a CYP2C8 substrate and gemfibrozil is a strong CYP2C8 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP2C8 inhibitor increased loperamide exposure by 2.2-fold.
LORazepam: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in lorazepam-related adverse reactions and consider reducing the dose of lorazepam if concomitant use of lorazepam and gemfibrozil is necessary. Avoid lorazepam extended-release capsules and utilize lorazepam immediate-release dosage forms that can be easily titrated. Lorazepam is an UGT substrate and gemfibrozil is an UGT inhibitor.
Lovastatin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of gemfibrozil and lovastatin; if fibrate therapy is required, fenofibrate or fenofibric acid is preferred in patients taking lovastatin. The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis increases when HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors are administered concurrently with gemfibrozil. Myopathy or rhabdomyolysis have been reported as early as 3 weeks after initiation of combined therapy or after several months. Severe myopathy and kidney damage may still occur with concurrent use even with additional laboratory monitoring.
Maraviroc: (Moderate) Use caution and closely monitor for increased adverse effects during concurrent administration of maraviroc and gemfibrozil as increased maraviroc concentrations may occur. Maraviroc is a substrate of organic anion-transporting polypeptide (OATP1B1); gemfibrozil is an inhibitor of OATP1B1. The effects of this transporter on the concentrations of maraviroc are unknown, although an increase in concentrations and thus, toxicity, are possible.
Meloxicam: (Moderate) Consider a meloxicam dose reduction and monitor for adverse reactions if coadministration with gemfibrozil is necessary. Concurrent use may increase meloxicam exposure. Meloxicam is a CYP2C9 substrate and gemfibrozil is a weak CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Moderate) Consider a meloxicam dose reduction and monitor for adverse reactions if coadministration with gemfibrozil is necessary. Concurrent use may increase meloxicam exposure. Meloxicam is a CYP2C9 substrate and gemfibrozil is a weak CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Montelukast: (Minor) Concentrations of montelukast may be increased with concomitant use of gemfibrozil; however, based on available clinical experience, no dosage adjustment of montelukast is required upon co-administration with gemfibrozil. At clinically relevant concentrations, CYP2C8 is the primary isozyme involved in the metabolism of montelukast; the drug is also metabolized by CYP2C9 and CYP3A4. Data from a clinical drug interaction study involving montelukast and gemfibrozil (a CYP2C8 and 2C9 inhibitor) demonstrated that gemfibrozil, at a therapeutic dose, increased the systemic exposure of montelukast by 4.4-fold. The addition of a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor did not further increase the inhibition of montelukast metabolism.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound PACLitaxel: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in paclitaxel-related adverse reactions if coadministration of nab-paclitaxel with gemfibrozil is necessary due to the risk of increased plasma concentrations of paclitaxel. Nab-paclitaxel is a CYP2C8 substrate and gemfibrozil is a strong CYP2C8 inhibitor. In vitro, the metabolism of paclitaxel to 6-alpha-hydroxypaclitaxel was inhibited by another inhibitor of CYP2C8.
Naproxen: (Moderate) Use naproxen and gemfibrozil together with caution. Naproxen is a substrate of CYP2C8, and gemfibrozil is a strong CYP2C8 inhibitor. Coadministration may result in a significant increase in naproxen exposure. A dose reduction of naproxen may be required if used concomitantly with gemfibrozil.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Moderate) Use naproxen and gemfibrozil together with caution. Naproxen is a substrate of CYP2C8, and gemfibrozil is a strong CYP2C8 inhibitor. Coadministration may result in a significant increase in naproxen exposure. A dose reduction of naproxen may be required if used concomitantly with gemfibrozil.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Use naproxen and gemfibrozil together with caution. Naproxen is a substrate of CYP2C8, and gemfibrozil is a strong CYP2C8 inhibitor. Coadministration may result in a significant increase in naproxen exposure. A dose reduction of naproxen may be required if used concomitantly with gemfibrozil.
Nateglinide: (Moderate) Increase the frequency of blood glucose monitoring if concomitant use of gemfibrozil and nateglinide is necessary; a nateglinide dosage decrease may be required. Gemfibrozil alters glucose metabolism, and concomitant use may increase the risk for hypoglycemia.
Olmesartan: (Moderate) Coadministration may result in an increase in olmesartan exposure. A dose reduction of olmesartan may be required if used concomitantly with gemfibrozil. Use olmesartan and gemfibrozil together with caution. Olmesartan is a substrate of the OATP1B1 transporter. Gemfibrozil inhibits OATP1B1.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Coadministration may result in an increase in olmesartan exposure. A dose reduction of olmesartan may be required if used concomitantly with gemfibrozil. Use olmesartan and gemfibrozil together with caution. Olmesartan is a substrate of the OATP1B1 transporter. Gemfibrozil inhibits OATP1B1.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Coadministration may result in an increase in olmesartan exposure. A dose reduction of olmesartan may be required if used concomitantly with gemfibrozil. Use olmesartan and gemfibrozil together with caution. Olmesartan is a substrate of the OATP1B1 transporter. Gemfibrozil inhibits OATP1B1.
Ozanimod: (Major) Coadministration of ozanimod with gemfibrozil is not recommended. Coadministration may increase the exposure of the active metabolites of ozanimod, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. Ozanimod is a CYP2C8 substrate and gemfibrozil is a strong CYP2C8 inhibitor. Coadministration with gemfibrozil increased the exposure of active metabolites CC112273 and CC1084037 by approximately 47% and 69%, respectively. No clinically significant differences in the exposure of ozanimod were observed when coadministered with gemfibrozil.
PACLitaxel: (Major) Paclitaxel is a substrate of CYP2C8 and gemfibrozil is a potent CYP2C8 inhibitor. Paclitaxel concentrations are expected to increase with the co-use of gemfibrozil. Consider alternative therapy to gemfibrozil. If coadministration is necessary, use caution and monitor for increased paclitaxel side effects, including myelosuppression and peripheral neuropathy.
Pexidartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of pexidartinib and gemfibrozil due to the risk of increased pexidartinib exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the pexidartinib dosage as follows: 500 mg/day or 375 mg/day of pexidartinib, reduce to 125 mg twice daily; 250 mg/day of pexidartinib, reduce to 125 mg once daily. If gemfibrozil is discontinued, increase the pexidartinib dose to the original dose after 3 plasma half-lives of gemfibrozil. Pexidartinib is a UGT substrate; gemfibrozil is a UGT inhibitor. Coadministration of another UGT inhibitor increased pexidartinib exposure by 60%.
Pioglitazone: (Major) Do not exceed 15 mg/day of pioglitazone when coadministered with gemfibrozil. Coadministration may increase the exposure of pioglitazone, increasing the risk for hypoglycemia. Pioglitazone is a CYP2C8 substrate and gemfibrozil is a strong CYP2C8 inhibitor. The exposure to pioglitazone is increased approximately 3-fold when combined with gemfibrozil. Fibric acid derivatives may also enhance the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents through increased insulin sensitivity and decreased glucagon secretion.
Pioglitazone; Glimepiride: (Major) Do not exceed 15 mg/day of pioglitazone when coadministered with gemfibrozil. Coadministration may increase the exposure of pioglitazone, increasing the risk for hypoglycemia. Pioglitazone is a CYP2C8 substrate and gemfibrozil is a strong CYP2C8 inhibitor. The exposure to pioglitazone is increased approximately 3-fold when combined with gemfibrozil. Fibric acid derivatives may also enhance the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents through increased insulin sensitivity and decreased glucagon secretion. (Moderate) There is an increased risk for hypoglycemia when gemfibrozil is used with sulfonylureas. Dose reductions and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required. Gemfibrozil is a potent inhibitor of CYP2C9, which metabolizes many of the sulfonylureas. In addition, glyburide is a substrate of the OATP1B1 transporter and gemfibrozil inhibits OATP1B1. Due to the effects of gemfibrozil on sulfonylurea metabolic pathways, an increase in sulfonylurea exposure may occur. Fibric acid derivatives may also enhance the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents through increased insulin sensitivity and increased glucagon secretion.
Pioglitazone; metFORMIN: (Major) Do not exceed 15 mg/day of pioglitazone when coadministered with gemfibrozil. Coadministration may increase the exposure of pioglitazone, increasing the risk for hypoglycemia. Pioglitazone is a CYP2C8 substrate and gemfibrozil is a strong CYP2C8 inhibitor. The exposure to pioglitazone is increased approximately 3-fold when combined with gemfibrozil. Fibric acid derivatives may also enhance the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents through increased insulin sensitivity and decreased glucagon secretion.
Pitavastatin: (Major) Although FDA approved labeling recommends avoiding coadministration of pitavastatin and gemfibrozil, clinical practice guidelines state the concurrent use of gemfibrozil and pitavastatin is acceptable to use if clinically indicated and fenofibrate or fenofibric acid is not an option. Initiate pitavastatin at a reduced dosage of 1 mg/day not to exceed 2 mg/day if coadministered with gemfibrozil. The risk of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis increases when HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors are administered concurrently with gemfibrozil. The serious risk of myopathy or rhabdomyolysis should be weighed carefully against the benefits of combined statin and gemfibrozil therapy; there is no assurance that periodic monitoring of CK will prevent the occurrence of severe myopathy and renal damage.
Pramlintide: (Moderate) Increase the frequency of blood glucose monitoring if concomitant use of gemfibrozil and pramlintide is necessary; a pramlintide dosage decrease may be required. Gemfibrozil alters glucose metabolism, and concomitant use may increase the risk for hypoglycemia.
Pravastatin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of pravastatin and gemfibrozil due to increased risk for rhabdomyolysis. The benefit of combined therapy with gemfibrozil and HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors does not outweigh the risks for most patients. If combination therapy with gemfibrozil and an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor is necessary, consider an alternative statin. Coadministration has also been shown to increase the overall exposure of pravastatin by 2-fold; pravastatin is an OATP1B1 substrate and gemfibrozil is an OATP1B1 inhibitor.
Probenecid; Colchicine: (Moderate) Monitor for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis if concomitant use of colchicine and gemfibrozil is necessary. Elderly patients and those with renal dysfunction are at increased risk. Cases of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis have been reported with concomitant use.
quiNINE: (Moderate) Coadministration may result in a significant increase in quinine exposure. A dose reduction of quinine may be required if used concomitantly with gemfibrozil. Use quinine and gemfibrozil together with caution. Quinine is a substrate of CYP2C8, and gemfibrozil is a strong CYP2C8 inhibitor.
Raltegravir: (Moderate) Monitor for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis if concomitant use of raltegravir and gemfibrozil is necessary. Both medications are associated with myopathy and rhabdomyolysis and concomitant use may further increase risk for these adverse effects.
Red Yeast Rice: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of red yeast rice and gemfibrozil. Concomitant use increases the risk for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis.
Regular Insulin: (Moderate) Increase the frequency of blood glucose monitoring if concomitant use of gemfibrozil and insulin is necessary; a insulin dosage decrease may be required. Gemfibrozil alters glucose metabolism, and concomitant use may increase the risk for hypoglycemia.
Regular Insulin; Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Increase the frequency of blood glucose monitoring if concomitant use of gemfibrozil and insulin is necessary; a insulin dosage decrease may be required. Gemfibrozil alters glucose metabolism, and concomitant use may increase the risk for hypoglycemia.
Repaglinide: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of repaglinide and gemfibrozil is contraindicated, due to significantly increased repaglinide exposure and hypoglycemic risk. Gemfibrozil is a potent inhibitor of CYP2C8, the primary pathway by which repaglinide is metabolized. Concurrent administration resulted in an 8.1-fold increase in repaglinide AUC as well as a 28.6-fold higher repaglinide plasma concentration 7 hours post-dose. The repaglinide half-life increased from 1.3 to 3.7 hours. Fibric acid derivatives are also known to enhance the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents through increased insulin sensitivity and decreased glucagon secretion.
Resmetirom: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of resmetirom and gemfibrozil due to the risk for increased resmetirom exposure which may increase the risk for resmetirom-related adverse effects. Resmetirom is a CYP2C8 substrate and gemfibrozil is a strong CYP2C8 inhibitor.
Revefenacin: (Major) Coadministration of revefenacin with gemfibrozil is not recommended because it could lead to an increase in systemic exposure of the active metabolite of revefenacin and an increased potential for anticholinergic adverse effects. The active metabolite of revefenacin is a substrate of OATP1B1 and OATP1B3; gemfibrozil is an inhibitor of OATP1B1.
rifAMPin: (Moderate) Coadministration may result in an increase in rifampin exposure. A dose reduction of rifampin may be required if used concomitantly with gemfibrozil. Use rifampin and gemfibrozil together with caution. Rifampin is a substrate of the OATP1B1 transporter. Gemfibrozil inhibits OATP1B1.
Riociguat: (Moderate) Coadministration may result in a significant increase in riociguat exposure. A dose reduction of riociguat may be required if used concomitantly with gemfibrozil. Use riociguat and gemfibrozil together with caution. Riociguat is a substrate of CYP2C8, and gemfibrozil is a strong CYP2C8 inhibitor.
Rosuvastatin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rosuvastatin and gemfibrozil. If concomitant use is necessary, limit the maximum daily dose of rosuvastatin to 10 mg. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure and the risk for rosuvastatin-related adverse effects, such as myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Concomitant use has been observed to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by 1.9-fold.
Rosuvastatin; Ezetimibe: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rosuvastatin and gemfibrozil. If concomitant use is necessary, limit the maximum daily dose of rosuvastatin to 10 mg. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure and the risk for rosuvastatin-related adverse effects, such as myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Concomitant use has been observed to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by 1.9-fold. (Major) The safety and effectiveness of ezetimibe when coadministered with gemfibrozil have not been established. Fibrates may increase cholesterol excretion into the bile, leading to cholelithiasis. Coadministration of ezetimibe with gemfibrozil is not recommended. In a preclinical study in dogs, ezetimibe increased cholesterol in the gallbladder bile. The incidence rates for cholecystectomy have been reported as 0.6% for fenofibrate monotherapy and 1.7% for combination therapy (ezetimibe plus fenofibrate), respectively. According to the manufacturer, the number of patients exposed to combination therapy versus fenofibrate or ezetimibe monotherapy has been inadequate to assess gallbladder disease risk. If cholelithiasis is suspected in a patient receiving ezetimibe and fenofibrate, gallbladder studies are indicated and alternative lipid-lowering therapy should be considered. In a pharmacokinetic study, concomitant fenofibrate or gemfibrozil administration increased total ezetimibe concentrations by approximately 1.5- or 1.7-fold, respectively. However, ezetimibe does not affect the pharmacokinetics of fenofibrate or the bioavailability of gemfibrozil.
Sacituzumab Govitecan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sacituzumab govitecan and gemfibrozil due to the risk of increased sacituzumab govitecan exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. The cytotoxic component of sacituzumab govitecan, SN-38, is metabolized by UGT1A1 and gemfibrozil is a UGT1A1 inhibitor. Formal drug interaction studies with sacituzumab govitecan have not been conducted but the concomitant use of UGT1A1 inhibitors is expected to increase SN-38 exposure.
Sacubitril; Valsartan: (Minor) Coadministration of valsartan and gemfibrozil may increase systemic exposure to valsartan. Valsartan is a substrate of the hepatic uptake transporter OATP1B1 and gemfibrozil is an inhibitor of OATP. Patients should be monitored for adverse effects of valsartan.
Selexipag: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of selexipag and gemfibrozil is contraindicated due to doubled exposure to selexipag and approximately 11-fold increased exposure to the selexipag active metabolite, which may cause side effects. Selexipag is a CYP2C8 substrate, and gemfibrozil is a strong CYP2C8 inhibitor.
Simvastatin: (Contraindicated) The use of simvastatin with gemfibrozil is contraindicated due to an increased risk for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Gemfibrozil can cause myopathy when used alone, and the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased by concomitant use with simvastatin. In addition, the AUC and Cmax of simvastatin are increased with concomitant gemfibrozil use. This may be due to inhibition of OATP1B1 by gemfibrozil; simvastatin is a substrate of OATP1B1.
Sodium Phenylbutyrate; Taurursodiol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol and gemfibrozil. Concomitant use may increase plasma concentrations of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol. Sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol is an OATP1B3 substrate and gemfibrozil is an OATP1B3 inhibitor.
Sulfonylureas: (Moderate) There is an increased risk for hypoglycemia when gemfibrozil is used with sulfonylureas. Dose reductions and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required. Gemfibrozil is a potent inhibitor of CYP2C9, which metabolizes many of the sulfonylureas. In addition, glyburide is a substrate of the OATP1B1 transporter and gemfibrozil inhibits OATP1B1. Due to the effects of gemfibrozil on sulfonylurea metabolic pathways, an increase in sulfonylurea exposure may occur. Fibric acid derivatives may also enhance the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents through increased insulin sensitivity and increased glucagon secretion.
Sulopenem Etzadroxil; Probenecid: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in sulopenem-related adverse effects (i.e., diarrhea, nausea) if concomitant use with gemfibrozil is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sulopenem exposure. Sulopenem is an OAT3 substrate and gemfibrozil is an OAT3 inhibitor.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Moderate) Use naproxen and gemfibrozil together with caution. Naproxen is a substrate of CYP2C8, and gemfibrozil is a strong CYP2C8 inhibitor. Coadministration may result in a significant increase in naproxen exposure. A dose reduction of naproxen may be required if used concomitantly with gemfibrozil.
Tovorafenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tovorafenib and gemfibrozil due to the risk for increased tovorafenib exposure which may increase the risk for tovorafenib-related adverse effects. Tovorafenib is a CYP2C8 substrate and gemfibrozil is a strong CYP2C8 inhibitor.
Treprostinil: (Moderate) Reduce the starting dose of oral treprostinil to 0.125 mg twice daily when coadministered with gemfibrozil; dose adjustments should be made in 0.125 mg twice daily increments every 3 to 4 days. Human pharmacokinetic studies of oral treprostinil indicate that coadministration of gemfibrozil, a cytochrome CYP2C8 enzyme inhibitor, results in a 2-fold increase in exposure to treprostinil, a CYP2C8 substrate. The clinical significance of this interaction with orally inhaled or parenteral treprostinil or with other CYP2C8 inhibitors is unknown; treprostinil dose adjustments may be necessary.
Tucatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tucatinib and gemfibrozil due to the risk of increased tucatinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of tucatinib to 100 mg twice daily. If gemfibrozil is discontinued, resume the original tucatinib dose after 3 elimination half-lives of gemfibrozil. Tucatinib is a CYP2C8 substrate and gemfibrozil is a strong CYP2C8 inhibitor. Coadministration with gemfibrozil increased tucatinib exposure by 3-fold.
Vadadustat: (Moderate) Monitor for too large or too rapid an increase in hemoglobin response and an increase in vadadustat-related adverse effects if concomitant use with gemfibrozil is necessary. Concomitant use may increase vadadustat exposure. Vadadustat is an OAT3 substrate and gemfibrozil is an OAT3 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another OAT3 inhibitor increased vadadustat overall exposure by approximately 1.75-fold.
Valsartan: (Minor) Coadministration of valsartan and gemfibrozil may increase systemic exposure to valsartan. Valsartan is a substrate of the hepatic uptake transporter OATP1B1 and gemfibrozil is an inhibitor of OATP. Patients should be monitored for adverse effects of valsartan.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Coadministration of valsartan and gemfibrozil may increase systemic exposure to valsartan. Valsartan is a substrate of the hepatic uptake transporter OATP1B1 and gemfibrozil is an inhibitor of OATP. Patients should be monitored for adverse effects of valsartan.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Closely monitor the INR if coadministration of warfarin with gemfibrozil is necessary as concurrent use may increase the exposure of warfarin leading to increased bleeding risk. Gemfibrozil is a weak CYP2C9 inhibitor and the S-enantiomer, the active metabolite of warfarin, is a CYP2C9 substrate. The S-enantiomer of warfarin exhibits 2 to 5 times more anticoagulant activity than the R-enantiomer, but the R-enantiomer generally has a slower clearance.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  Adverse GI effects are the most frequently reported side effects and occasionally are severe enough to require discontinuance of the drug. These effects include abdominal pain, dyspepsia, nausea/vomiting, diarrhea, and cholestasis with jaundice. Cases of cholelithiasis have been reported during gemfibrozil therapy; cholelithiasis can result from increased biliary excretion of cholesterol. This problem is a serious concern with clofibrate, a related agent. Although gallbladder disease does not appear to be as serious with gemfibrozil, therapy should be discontinued if any signs of cholelithiasis occur. Elevated hepatic enzymes and hyperbilirubinemia have also been associated with gemfibrozil.A variety of nervous system effects have been reported with gemfibrozil. These include headache, dizziness, drowsiness, blurred vision, dysgeusia, hypesthesia, paresthesias, peripheral neuropathy, mental depression, impotence (erectile dysfunction), and libido decrease.Concomitant use of gemfibrozil with HMG-Co-A reductase inhibitors is associated with a serious risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis (see Drug Interactions). Combined therapy should be avoided where possible (evaluate risks versus benefits), and gemfibrozil should be discontinued if elevated CK levels, myopathy, myasthenia, or myalgia (muscle pain) occur. Arthralgia has also been reported.There is a probable causal relationship between gemfibrozil use and anemia, leukopenia, bone marrow hypoplasia, and eosinophilia. The effect on hemoglobin, hematocrit, and white blood cell counts is generally mild. In controlled clinical trials, incidence of viral and bacterial infection was more common in patients treated with gemfibrozil than with placebo. Infection was manifested as the common cold, cough, and urinary tract infection. Periodic blood counts are recommended during the first twelve months of treatment.Hypersensitivity and/or skin reactions have been reported during therapy with gemfibrozil and may include angioedema, dermatitis, exfoliative dermatitis, laryngeal edema, pruritus, rash (unspecified), and urticaria.The manufacturer has reported atrial fibrillation in 0.7% of patients receiving gemfibrozil compared to 0.1% receiving placebo (Helsinki Heart Study).
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    abdominal pain, cholecystitis, cholelithiasis, cholestasis, colitis, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatoma, hyperbilirubinemia, jaundice, nausea, pancreatitis, vomiting, weight loss
    General Information
    Adverse GI effects are the most frequently reported side effects and occasionally are severe enough to require discontinuance of gemfibrozil. Among 2046 gemfibrozil recipients, 19.6% had dyspepsia, 9.8% had abdominal pain, 1.2% had acute appendicitis, 7.2% had diarrhea, 2.5% had nausea and/or vomiting, and 1.4% had constipation. A probable causal relationship between cholestatic jaundice (from cholestasis), elevated hepatic enzymes, hyperbilirubinemia, and increased alkaline phosphatase and gemfibrozil exists. Abnormal liver function tests including elevations of AST, ALT, LDH, bilirubin, and alkaline phosphatase have been observed occasionally during gemfibrozil receipt. Periodic liver function studies are recommended. Stop gemfibrozil if abnormalities persist; abnormalities are usually reversible when gemfibrozil is discontinued. Weight loss, pancreatitis, hepatoma, and colitis have been reported, but a causal relationship to gemfibrozil has not been established. Cholecystitis and cholelithiasis have also been reported. In a study, a trend toward a greater prevalence of gallstones was noted with gemfibrozil (7.5% versus 4.9% for the placebo group). Gemfibrozil may increase cholesterol excretion into the bile, leading to cholelithiasis. If cholelithiasis is suspected, gallbladder studies are indicated. Discontinue gemfibrozil if gallstones are found.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      cholelithiasis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      cholestasis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspepsia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hyperbilirubinemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      jaundice
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      cholecystitis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      colitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hepatoma
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      pancreatitis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      weight loss
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    confusion, depression, dizziness, fatigue, headache, impotence (erectile dysfunction), libido decrease, neuritis, paresthesias, syncope
    General Information
    Among 2046 gemfibrozil recipients, 3.8% had fatigue vs. 3.5% with placebo, 1.5% had dizziness vs. 1.3% with placebo, and 1.2% had headache vs. 1.1% with placebo, and all are thought to have a probable causal relationship to gemfibrozil. The following adverse effects are also thought to have a probable causal relationship to the drug: paresthesias, peripheral neuritis, libido decrease, impotence (erectile dysfunction), and depression. Although reported, a causal relationship of gemfibrozil to side effects such as confusion, convulsions, syncope, decreased male fertility, or renal dysfunction has not been established.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      depression
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      impotence (erectile dysfunction)
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      libido decrease
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      paresthesias
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      confusion
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      neuritis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      syncope
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    arthralgia, elevated creatine kinase, lupus-like symptoms, myalgia, myasthenia, myopathy, rhabdomyolysis, synovitis, vasculitis
    General Information
    A probable causal relationship exists between gemfibrozil and myopathy, myasthenia, myalgia, painful extremities, arthralgia, synovitis, rhabdomyolysis, and elevated creatine kinase (CK). Promptly evaluate any patient who complains of muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness for myositis. Stop gemfibrozil if myositis is suspected or diagnosed. Concomitant use of gemfibrozil with HMG-Co-A reductase inhibitors is associated with an increased risk of skeletal muscle toxicity manifested as rhabdomyolysis, markedly elevated CK concentrations, and myoglobinuria, leading in a high proportion of cases to acute renal failure and death. Positive antinuclear antibody, vasculitis, and lupus-like symptoms have been reported with gemfibrozil, but a causal relationship has not been established.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      myalgia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      myasthenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      myopathy
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      rhabdomyolysis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      synovitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      lupus-like symptoms
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      vasculitis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      elevated creatine kinase
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    anemia, eosinophilia, infection, intracranial bleeding, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia
    General Information
    Mild hemoglobin, hematocrit, and white blood cell decreases have been observed in occasional patients after gemfibrozil initiation. However, these levels stabilize during long-term administration. There is a probable causal relationship between gemfibrozil use and anemia, leukopenia, bone marrow hypoplasia, and eosinophilia. Rarely, severe anemia, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, and bone marrow hypoplasia have been reported. A causal relationship between thrombocytopenia and intracranial bleeding and gemfibrozil has not been established. In controlled clinical trials, incidence of viral and bacterial infection was more common in patients treated with gemfibrozil than with placebo. Infection was manifested as the common cold, cough, and urinary tract infection. Periodic blood counts are recommended during the first twelve months of treatment.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      eosinophilia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      leukopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      intracranial bleeding
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    alopecia, anaphylactic shock, angioedema, exfoliative dermatitis, laryngeal edema, photosensitivity, pruritus, rash (unspecified), urticaria
    General Information
    Rash (unspecified) was noted in 1.7% of gemfibrozil recipients as compared with 1.3% of placebo recipients, and eczema was noted in 1.9% of gemfibrozil recipients as compared with 1.3% of placebo recipients. A probable causal relationship between gemfibrozil and angioedema, laryngeal edema, urticaria, exfoliative dermatitis, rash (unspecified), dermatitis, and pruritus exists. Alopecia, photosensitivity, and anaphylaxis (anaphylactic shock) have been reported, but a causal relationship has not been established.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      exfoliative dermatitis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      laryngeal edema
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      alopecia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactic shock
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      photosensitivity
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    atrial fibrillation
    General Information
    The manufacturer has reported atrial fibrillation in 0.7% of patients receiving gemfibrozil compared to 0.1% receiving placebo (Helsinki Heart Study). Extrasystoles have been reported, but a causal relationship to gemfibrozil has not been established.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      atrial fibrillation
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    blurred vision, cataracts, retinal edema
    General Information
    A probable causal relationship has been established between gemfibrozil and blurred vision. Although a causal relationship has not been established, gemfibrozil may cause retinal edema and/or cataracts. In a trial, cataracts were more common among gemfibrozil recipients as compared with placebo recipients. In male rats who received gemfibrozil at 10 times the human dose, subcapsular bilateral cataracts occurred in 10% and unilateral cataracts in 6.3%.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cataracts
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      retinal edema
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      blurred vision
      Severity
      Moderate

Description
  Text
  Gemfibrozil is a fibric acid antilipemic agent similar to clofibrate, but possesses biologic actions distinct from those of clofibrate. Gemfibrozil effectively lowers serum triglycerides and also produces favorable changes in lipoproteins, but the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors are more effective in hyperlipoproteinemia. Gemfibrozil is indicated as second-line therapy for type IIb hypercholesterolemia (elevated cholesterol, triglycerides, LDL, VLDL), recommended only in patients with low HDL (< 35 mg/dL) and without evidence of coronary artery disease. The Helsinki Heart Study, published in 1987, found gemfibrozil effective in reducing the risk of coronary heart disease in men. Combination therapy with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors and gemfibrozil has been associated with a significantly enhanced risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Gemfibrozil was approved by the FDA in 1981.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  The exact mechanism of action has not been fully defined. Gemfibrozil has been shown to inhibit peripheral lipolysis and to decrease hepatic extraction of free fatty acids, which, in turn, decreases hepatic triglyceride production. Gemfibrozil also inhibits the synthesis and increases the clearance of apolipoprotein B, a carrier molecule for VLDL. Gemfibrozil may also accelerate turnover and removal of cholesterol from the liver and increase excretion of cholesterol into the feces. Gemfibrozil's effects to lower triglyceride concentrations and raise HDL-cholesterol concentrations have been shown to be greater than those of clofibrate, to which it is structurally related.
 
Gemfibrozil has variable effects on LDL cholesterol. Although it causes moderate reductions in patients with type IIa hyperlipoproteinemia, changes in patients with either type IIb or type IV hyperlipoproteinemia are unpredictable. In general, the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors are more effective than gemfibrozil in reducing LDL cholesterol.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Gemfibrozil is completely absorbed after oral administration of gemfibrozil tablets, reaching peak plasma concentrations 1 to 2 hours after dosing. Gemfibrozil pharmacokinetics are affected by the timing of meals relative to time of dosing. In one study both the rate and extent of absorption of the drug were significantly increased when administered 0.5 hour before meals. Average AUC was reduced by 14% to 44% when gemfibrozil was administered after meals compared to 0.5 hour before meals. In a subsequent study, rate of absorption of gemfibrozil was maximum when administered 0.5 hour before meals with the Cmax 50% to 60% greater than when given either with meals or fasting. In this study, there were no significant effects on AUC of timing of dose relative to meals.
  Text
  Gemfibrozil is administered orally. Protein binding is approximately 95%. Gemfibrozil mainly undergoes oxidation of a ring methyl group to successively form a hydroxymethyl and a carboxyl metabolite. Approximately seventy percent of the administered human dose is excreted in the urine, mostly as the glucuronide conjugate, with less than 2% excreted as unchanged gemfibrozil. Six-percent of the dose is accounted for in the feces. One of the metabolites possesses pharmacologic activity. The elimination half-life is approximately 1.5 hours.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP2C9, CYP2C8, OATP1B1, OATP2B1, UGT1A1 and UGT1A3
Gemfibrozil is an inhibitor of CYP2C9 and a strong inhibitor of CYP2C8. Dosing reduction of drugs that are mainly metabolized by CYP2C8 enzyme may be required when gemfibrozil is used concomitantly. Gemfibrozil is also an inhibitor of OATP1B1 and OATP2B1. Dosing reductions of drugs that are substrates of OATP1B1 may be required when gemfibrozil is used concomitantly. Gemfibrozil is also known to inhibit UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) 1A1 and 1A3.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Administer 30 minutes before the morning and evening meals.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    1200 mg/day PO, up to 1600 mg/day PO has been studied.
    Name
    Elderly
    Max Dosage
    1200 mg/day PO, up to 1600 mg/day PO has been studied.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Gemfibrozil is contraindicated in patients with hepatic dysfunction, including primary biliary cirrhosis.
  Renal Impairment
  CrCl >= 50 mL/min: No dose adjustment is necessary.
CrCl 10—50 mL/min: Consider alternative therapy per the manufacturer, reports of worsening renal insufficiency have occurred during use of gemfibrozil in those with a baseline SCr > 2 mg/dL (i.e., estimated CrCl of < 50 mL/min based on a 70 kg adult male). Use with caution if gemfibrozil therapy is necessary.
CrCl < 10 mL/min: Per manufacturer recommendations contraindicated in severe renal dysfunction.
 
Intermittent hemodialysis
Not applicable; gemfibrozil is not recommended in patients with severe renal dysfunction (manufacturer information).
