=== Lorlatinib (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5111)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Lorlatinib is an oral kinase inhibitor approved for the treatment of anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK)-positive metastatic non-small cell lung cancer.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 100 mg PO once daily.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatotoxicity, hypoalbuminemia, carpal tunnel syndrome, dysesthesia, formication, hypoesthesia, paresthesias, peripheral neuropathy, weakness, amnesia, confusion, dementia, hyperactivity, impaired cognition, memory impairment, agitation, anxiety, depression, emotional lability, euphoria, irritability, mania, psychosis, suicidal ideation, abnormal dreams, insomnia, nightmares, somnambulism, cough

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Use lorlatinib with caution in patients with a history of seizures or in patients with a baseline mood disorder. Emetic risk: Minimal/Low

Brand Names
  - Lorbrena

Dosage Forms
  - Lorbrena 100mg Tablet
  - Lorbrena 25mg Tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        100 mg PO once daily until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. First-line treatment of ALK-positive, metastatic NSCLC significantly improved median progression-free survival (not established vs. 9.3 months) compared with crizotinib in a multicenter, randomized, open-label clinical trial (the CROWN study). The overall response rate was 76% (complete response [CR], 3%) for a median duration that was not established in the lorlatinib arm compared with 58% (CR, 0%) for a median duration of 11 months in the crizotinib arm; the response duration lasted at least 12 months in 70% versus 27% of patients, respectively. The intracranial response rate in patients with measurable intracranial lesions was 82% (CR, 71%) in patients treated with lorlatinib (n = 17) and 23% (CR, 8%) in those who received crizotinib (n = 13); the intracranial response lasted at least 12 months in 79% of patients in the lorlatinib arm and in no patients treated with crizotinib. In a subgroup of patients with ALK-positive, metastatic NSCLC previously treated with one or more ALK inhibitors, the overall response rate was 48% (CR, 4%) for a median duration of 12.5 months in a multicenter, nonrandomized, dose-ranging, activity-estimating, multicohort study; the intracranial response rate in patients with measurable intracranial lesions was 60% (CR, 21%) for a median duration of 19.5 months.
    Heading
    For the treatment of metastatic, ALK-positive non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC)

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    mood disorder, seizures
    General Information
    Use lorlatinib with caution in patients with a history of seizures or in patients with a baseline mood disorder. Adverse reactions related to the central nervous system (CNS) occur in approximately half of patients treated with lorlatinib, including effects on cognition, mood, sleep, and speech; psychosis and seizures have also occurred. Monitor for these changes; an interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary.
    Headline
    hyperlipidemia
    General Information
    Initiate or optimize lipid-lowering therapy in patients with hyperlipidemia at baseline; increases in serum cholesterol and triglycerides commonly occur with lorlatinib therapy. Monitor serum cholesterol and triglycerides at baseline, at 1 and 2 months after starting therapy, and periodically thereafter. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary if hypercholesterolemia or hypertriglyceridemia occur during treatment.
    Headline
    Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure
    General Information
    Reduce the dose of lorlatinib for patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C); dosage recommendations are not available for patients with hepatic failure. A dosage adjustment is not necessary for patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment. Severe hepatotoxicity occurred in patients treated with lorlatinib when receiving a concomitant strong CYP3A inducer.
    Headline
    pulmonary disease
    General Information
    Use lorlatinib with caution in patients who have a history of pre-existing pulmonary disease; severe pneumonitis/interstitial lung disease has been reported in patients treated with lorlatinib. Monitor patients for new or worsening respiratory symptoms including fever, cough, or dyspnea. Immediately interrupt lorlatinib therapy in patients with new or worsening respiratory symptoms and permanently discontinue therapy if no other potential causes are identified.
    Headline
    hypertension
    General Information
    Use lorlatinib with caution in patients with hypertension; do not initiate lorlatinib therapy in patients with uncontrolled hypertension. Lorlatinib can cause increases in blood pressure. Monitor blood pressure at baseline, 2 weeks after starting therapy, and then at least monthly thereafter and as clinically indicated. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary if hypertension occurs.
    Headline
    diabetes mellitus
    General Information
    Use lorlatinib with caution in patients with diabetes mellitus; new or worsening hyperglycemia can occur during treatment. Assess fasting blood glucose prior to initiation of lorlatinib therapy and monitor periodically thereafter. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary if adequate glycemic control cannot be achieved.
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    Reduce the dose of lorlatinib for patients with severe renal impairment (CrCl 15 to 29 mL/min) due to increased lorlatinib exposure which may increase the incidence of adverse reactions. The pharmacokinetics of lorlatinib have not been studied in patients with end-stage renal disease requiring hemodialysis or renal failure.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Lorlatinib can cause fetal harm if used during pregnancy, based on its mechanism of action and data from animal studies. Administration of lorlatinib to rabbits at exposures approximately 3 times or greater than the human exposure at the recommended dose resulted in abortion and total pregnancy loss. At approximately 0.6 times the human exposure, increased post-implantation loss occurred, as well as malformations such as rotated limbs, malformed kidneys, domed head, high arched palate, and dilation of the cerebral ventricles. In rats, exposures of approximately 5 times the human exposure during organogenesis resulted in total pregnancy loss. At a dose approximately equal to the human exposure, increased post-implantation loss, decreased fetal body weight, and increased malformations (i.e. gastroschisis, rotated limbs, supernumerary digits, and vessel abnormalities) were observed. Advise pregnant individuals of the potential fetal risk.
    Headline
    people who can cause pregnancy in others, people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel people who may become pregnant and people who can cause pregnancy in others about the reproductive risk associated with lorlatinib. Lorlatinib can cause fetal harm. Verify pregnancy status prior to treatment initiation. Advise people who may become pregnant to use effective non-hormonal contraception while taking lorlatinib and for at least 6 months after the last dose; lorlatinib can render hormonal contraceptives ineffective. Based on genotoxicity observed in animal studies, people who can cause pregnancy in others should also use effective contraception during lorlatinib treatment and for at least 3 months after the last dose. Based on animal data, lorlatinib may transiently impair male fertility.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding during lorlatinib treatment and for 7 days after the last dose due to the potential for serious side effects in the breast-fed child. There are no data on the presence of lorlatinib in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effect on milk production.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Lorlatinib can cause fetal harm if used during pregnancy, based on its mechanism of action and data from animal studies. Administration of lorlatinib to rabbits at exposures approximately 3 times or greater than the human exposure at the recommended dose resulted in abortion and total pregnancy loss. At approximately 0.6 times the human exposure, increased post-implantation loss occurred, as well as malformations such as rotated limbs, malformed kidneys, domed head, high arched palate, and dilation of the cerebral ventricles. In rats, exposures of approximately 5 times the human exposure during organogenesis resulted in total pregnancy loss. At a dose approximately equal to the human exposure, increased post-implantation loss, decreased fetal body weight, and increased malformations (i.e. gastroschisis, rotated limbs, supernumerary digits, and vessel abnormalities) were observed. Advise pregnant individuals of the potential fetal risk.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding during lorlatinib treatment and for 7 days after the last dose due to the potential for serious side effects in the breast-fed child. There are no data on the presence of lorlatinib in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effect on milk production.

Interactions
Abacavir; Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of dolutegravir if coadministered with lorlatinib. Concurrent use may decrease the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A4 substrate as well as a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer and a P-gp inducer.
Abemaciclib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lorlatinib with abemaciclib due to decreased exposure to abemaciclib and its active metabolites, which may lead to reduced efficacy. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A4 inducers is predicted to decrease the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by 29% to 53%.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of dihydrocodeine and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with lorlatinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of dihydrocodeine as needed. If lorlatinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of dihydrocodeine and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Lorlatinib is a moderate inducer of CYP3A4, an isoenzyme partially responsible for the metabolism of dihydrocodeine. Concomitant use of dihydrocodeine with lorlatinib can decrease dihydrocodeine levels, resulting in less metabolism by CYP2D6 and decreased dihydromorphine concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with lorlatinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If lorlatinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with lorlatinib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A4 metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with lorlatinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If lorlatinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use can decrease hydrocodone levels.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of oxycodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with lorlatinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of oxycodone as needed. If lorlatinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of lorlatinib and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Oxycodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease oxycodone concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Acoramidis: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of acoramidis and lorlatinib due to the risk of decreased acoramidis exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Acoramidis is a UGT substrate and lorlatinib is a UGT inducer.
Adagrasib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lorlatinib with adagrasib due to increased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of lorlatinib from 100 mg to 75 mg once daily, or from 75 mg to 50 mg once daily. If adagrasib is discontinued, resume the original dose of lorlatinib after 3 half-lives of adagrasib. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased lorlatinib exposure by 42%.
Afatinib: (Major) Increase the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg as tolerated if the concomitant use with lorlatinib is necessary; resume the previous dose of afatinib 2 to 3 days after discontinuation of lorlatinib. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and lorlatinib is a P-gp inducer; coadministration may decrease plasma concentrations of afatinib. Pre-treatment with another strong P-gp inducer decreased afatinib exposure by 34%.
Aficamten: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in aficamten efficacy during concomitant use of aficamten and lorlatinib; increase the aficamten dosage as appropriate based on response. If lorlatinib is discontinued, reduce the aficamten dosage by approximately half: 20 mg to 10 mg, 15 mg to 5 mg, 10 mg to 5 mg, or continue 5 mg. Concomitant use may decrease aficamten exposure. Aficamten is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Consider an increased dose of alfentanil and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with lorlatinib is necessary. If lorlatinib is discontinued, consider reducing the alfentanil dosage and monitor for evidence of respiratory depression. Coadministration of a moderate CYP3A4 inducer like lorlatinib with alfentanil, a CYP3A4 substrate, may decrease exposure to alfentanil resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of withdrawal symptoms in a patient who has developed physical dependence to alfentanil. Alfentanil plasma concentrations will increase once the inducer is stopped, which may increase or prolong the therapeutic and adverse effects, including serious respiratory depression.
amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with lorlatinib is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use may decrease amlodipine plasma concentrations, decreasing efficacy.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with lorlatinib is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use may decrease amlodipine plasma concentrations, decreasing efficacy.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with lorlatinib is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use may decrease amlodipine plasma concentrations, decreasing efficacy.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with lorlatinib is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use may decrease amlodipine plasma concentrations, decreasing efficacy.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with lorlatinib is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use may decrease amlodipine plasma concentrations, decreasing efficacy.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with lorlatinib is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use may decrease amlodipine plasma concentrations, decreasing efficacy.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with lorlatinib is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use may decrease amlodipine plasma concentrations, decreasing efficacy.
Amobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lorlatinib and amobarbital due to decreased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, increase the dose of lorlatinib to 125 mg PO once daily. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and amobarbital is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Administration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased lorlatinib exposure by 23%.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lorlatinib with clarithromycin due to increased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions of lorlatinib; plasma concentrations of clarithromycin may also decrease. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of lorlatinib from 100 mg to 75 mg once daily, or from 75 mg to 50 mg once daily. If clarithromycin is discontinued, resume the original dose of lorlatinib after 3 plasma half-lives of clarithromycin. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Clarithromycin is a CYP3A4 substrate and strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased lorlatinib exposure by 42%. Inducers of CYP3A enzymes will decrease plasma concentrations of clarithromycin while increasing those of 14-OH-clarithromycin. Since the microbiological activities of clarithromycin and 14-OH-clarithromycin are different for different bacteria, the intended therapeutic effect could be impaired during concomitant administration of clarithromycin and enzyme inducers.
Apalutamide: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of lorlatinib with apalutamide is contraindicated due to the risk of severe hepatotoxicity as well as decreased lorlatinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Discontinue apalutamide for 3 plasma half-lives prior to initiating therapy with lorlatinib. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased lorlatinib exposure by 85% and caused severe (grade 3 or 4) hepatotoxicity in 83% of patients.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lorlatinib and butalbital due to decreased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, increase the dose of lorlatinib to 125 mg PO once daily. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and butalbital is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Administration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased lorlatinib exposure by 23%.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with lorlatinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If lorlatinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with lorlatinib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A4 metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of oxycodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with lorlatinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of oxycodone as needed. If lorlatinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of lorlatinib and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Oxycodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease oxycodone concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Atazanavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lorlatinib with atazanavir due to increased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions of lorlatinib; exposure to atazanavir may also decrease. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of lorlatinib from 100 mg to 75 mg once daily, or from 75 mg to 50 mg once daily. If atazanavir is discontinued, resume the original dose of lorlatinib after 3 plasma half-lives of atazanavir. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Atazanavir is a CYP3A4 substrate and a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased lorlatinib exposure by 42%. Concomitant administration of atazanavir with CYP3A4 inducers may decrease plasma concentrations, reducing efficacy and increasing the potential for viral resistance.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lorlatinib with atazanavir due to increased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions of lorlatinib; exposure to atazanavir may also decrease. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of lorlatinib from 100 mg to 75 mg once daily, or from 75 mg to 50 mg once daily. If atazanavir is discontinued, resume the original dose of lorlatinib after 3 plasma half-lives of atazanavir. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Atazanavir is a CYP3A4 substrate and a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased lorlatinib exposure by 42%. Concomitant administration of atazanavir with CYP3A4 inducers may decrease plasma concentrations, reducing efficacy and increasing the potential for viral resistance. (Major) Avoid coadministration of lorlatinib with cobicistat due to increased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions of lorlatinib; plasma concentrations of cobicistat may also decrease. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of lorlatinib from 100 mg to 75 mg once daily, or from 75 mg to 50 mg once daily. If cobicistat is discontinued, resume the original dose of lorlatinib after 3 half-lives of cobicistat. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Cobicistat is a CYP3A4 substrate and a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased lorlatinib exposure by 42%. Coadministration of cobicistat with moderate CYP3A4 inducers may reduce antiretroviral efficacy and increase the potential development of viral resistance.
Atogepant: (Major) Avoid use of atogepant and lorlatinib when atogepant is used for chronic migraine. Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with lorlatinib is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Atrasentan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and lorlatinib. Concurrent use may decrease atrasentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Atrasentan is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Avacopan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of avacopan and lorlatinib due to the risk of decreased avacopan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Avanafil: (Major) Coadministration of avanafil with lorlatinib is not recommended by the manufacturer of avanafil due to the potential for decreased avanafil efficacy. Avanafil is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a CYP3A4 inducer. Although the potential effect of CYP inducers on the pharmacokinetics of avanafil was not evaluated, plasma concentrations may decrease.
Avapritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with lorlatinib due to the risk of decreased avapritinib efficacy. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer is predicted to decrease the AUC and Cmax of avapritinib by 62% and 55%, respectively.
Avutometinib; Defactinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and lorlatinib. Concurrent use may decrease defactinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Axitinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with lorlatinib if possible due to the risk of decreased efficacy of axitinib. Selection of a concomitant medication with no or minimal CYP3A4 induction potential is recommended. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Baxdrostat: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in baxdrostat efficacy during concomitant use with lorlatinib. Concomitant use may decrease baxdrostat exposure. Baxdrostat is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a CYP3A inducer.
Bedaquiline: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lorlatinib with bedaquiline due to decreased plasma exposure to bedaquiline. Bedaquiline is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreased bedaquiline exposure by approximately 20%. The AUC and Cmax of the primary metabolite of bedaquiline (M2) were increased by 70% and 80%, respectively.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of benzhydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with lorlatinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of benzhydrocodone as needed. If lorlatinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of benzhydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Benzhydrocodone is a prodrug for hydrocodone. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease hydrocodone concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Berotralstat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of berotralstat with lorlatinib. Concurrent use may decrease berotralstat exposure, leading to reduced efficacy. Berotralstat is a P-gp substrate and lorlatinib is a P-gp inducer.
Bexarotene: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lorlatinib and bexarotene due to decreased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, increase the dose of lorlatinib to 125 mg PO once daily. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and bexarotene is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Administration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased lorlatinib exposure by 23%.
Bictegravir; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in tenofovir alafenamide efficacy during concomitant use of tenofovir alafenamide and lorlatinib. Concomitant use may decrease tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and lorlatinib is a P-gp inducer. Concomitant use with another P-gp inducer reduced tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 55%.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of lenacapavir for HIV treatment and lorlatinib due to the risk for decreased lenacapavir exposure which may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. If lenacapavir is used for HIV PrEP and use with lorlatinib is necessary, supplemental lenacapavir doses are required to maintain effective drug concentrations. On the day lorlatinib is initiated, a supplemental lenacapavir subcutaneous dose of 463.5 mg should be administered. If lorlatinib is continued beyond 6 months, this supplemental dose should be repeated every 6 months from the start of the inducer. After discontinuation of lorlatinib, the patient should resume the standard 6-month lenacapavir injection schedule. Recommendations are not available for individuals already on lorlatinib at the time of lenacapavir initiation or those receiving weekly oral lenacapavir. Lenacapavir is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced lenacapavir overall exposure by 56%.
Bosentan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lorlatinib and bosentan due to decreased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, increase the dose of lorlatinib to 125 mg PO once daily. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and bosentan is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Administration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased lorlatinib exposure by 23%.
Brigatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of brigatinib with lorlatinib due to decreased plasma exposure to brigatinib which may result in decreased efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, after 7 days of concomitant treatment with lorlatinib, increase the dose of brigatinib as tolerated in 30 mg increments to a maximum of twice the original brigatinib dose. Brigatinib is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the AUC of brigatinib by approximately 50%.
Buprenorphine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of buprenorphine, and potentially the onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to buprenorphine, if coadministration with lorlatinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. If lorlatinib is discontinued, consider a buprenorphine dose reduction and monitor for signs of respiratory depression. Buprenorphine is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of buprenorphine, and potentially the onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to buprenorphine, if coadministration with lorlatinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. If lorlatinib is discontinued, consider a buprenorphine dose reduction and monitor for signs of respiratory depression. Buprenorphine is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
busPIRone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of buspirone if lorlatinib is added to a patient on a stable dosage of buspirone; a dose increase of buspirone may be needed to maintain anxiolytic activity. Buspirone is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lorlatinib and butalbital due to decreased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, increase the dose of lorlatinib to 125 mg PO once daily. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and butalbital is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Administration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased lorlatinib exposure by 23%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lorlatinib and butalbital due to decreased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, increase the dose of lorlatinib to 125 mg PO once daily. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and butalbital is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Administration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased lorlatinib exposure by 23%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lorlatinib and butalbital due to decreased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, increase the dose of lorlatinib to 125 mg PO once daily. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and butalbital is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Administration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased lorlatinib exposure by 23%. (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with lorlatinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If lorlatinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with lorlatinib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A4 metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lorlatinib and butalbital due to decreased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, increase the dose of lorlatinib to 125 mg PO once daily. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and butalbital is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Administration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased lorlatinib exposure by 23%. (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with lorlatinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If lorlatinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with lorlatinib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A4 metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Cabotegravir: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of cabotegravir and lorlatinib is contraindicated due to the potential for significant decreases in the plasma concentrations of cabotegravir, which may result in potential loss of virologic response and development of resistance. Cabotegravir is a substrate for UGT1A1 and UGT1A9 and lorlatinib is a UGT inducer. Coadministration with another UGT inducer decreased cabotegravir exposure by 59%.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of cabotegravir and lorlatinib is contraindicated due to the potential for significant decreases in the plasma concentrations of cabotegravir, which may result in potential loss of virologic response and development of resistance. Cabotegravir is a substrate for UGT1A1 and UGT1A9 and lorlatinib is a UGT inducer. Coadministration with another UGT inducer decreased cabotegravir exposure by 59%. (Moderate) Close clinical monitoring is advised when administering lorlatinib with rilpivirine due to the potential for rilpivirine treatment failure. Although this interaction has not been studied, predictions can be made based on metabolic pathways. Lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer and rilpivirine is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration may result in decreased rilpivirine serum concentrations and impaired virologic response.
Cabozantinib: (Major) For patients taking cabozantinib tablets, avoid the concomitant use of cabozantinib and lorlatinib. If use is necessary, increase the dose of cabozantinib by 20 mg (e.g., 60 mg/day to 80 mg/day; 40 mg/day to 60 mg/day) up to a maximum daily dose of 80 mg. Concomitant use may reduce cabozantinib exposure. Cabozantinib is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Capivasertib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capivasertib with lorlatinib due to decreased capivasertib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Capivasertib is a CYP3A substrate; lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the capivasertib overall exposure by 60%.
Capmatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capmatinib and lorlatinib due to the risk of decreased capmatinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreased capmatinib exposure by 44%.
carBAMazepine: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of lorlatinib with carbamazepine is contraindicated due to the risk of severe hepatotoxicity as well as decreased lorlatinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Discontinue carbamazepine for 3 plasma half-lives prior to initiating therapy with lorlatinib. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and carbamazepine is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased lorlatinib exposure by 85% and caused severe (grade 3 or 4) hepatotoxicity in 83% of patients.
Cariprazine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cariprazine and lorlatinib. Concurrent use may decrease cariprazine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Cariprazine is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a CYP3A inducer.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of tramadol and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with lorlatinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of tramadol as needed. If lorlatinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of tramadol and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Tramadol is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease tramadol levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Cenobamate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lorlatinib and cenobamate due to decreased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, increase the dose of lorlatinib to 125 mg PO once daily. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and cenobamate is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Administration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased lorlatinib exposure by 23%.
Ceritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lorlatinib with ceritinib due to increased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of lorlatinib from 100 mg to 75 mg once daily, or from 75 mg to 50 mg once daily. If ceritinib is discontinued, resume the original dose of lorlatinib after 3 half-lives of ceritinib. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and ceritinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased lorlatinib exposure by 42%.
Chloramphenicol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lorlatinib with chloramphenicol due to increased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of lorlatinib from 100 mg to 75 mg once daily, or from 75 mg to 50 mg once daily. If chloramphenicol is discontinued, resume the original dose of lorlatinib after 3 half-lives of chloramphenicol. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased lorlatinib exposure by 42%.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with lorlatinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If lorlatinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with lorlatinib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A4 metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with lorlatinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If lorlatinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use can decrease hydrocodone levels.
Cholera Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the live cholera vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to cholera bacteria after receiving the vaccine.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lorlatinib with clarithromycin due to increased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions of lorlatinib; plasma concentrations of clarithromycin may also decrease. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of lorlatinib from 100 mg to 75 mg once daily, or from 75 mg to 50 mg once daily. If clarithromycin is discontinued, resume the original dose of lorlatinib after 3 plasma half-lives of clarithromycin. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Clarithromycin is a CYP3A4 substrate and strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased lorlatinib exposure by 42%. Inducers of CYP3A enzymes will decrease plasma concentrations of clarithromycin while increasing those of 14-OH-clarithromycin. Since the microbiological activities of clarithromycin and 14-OH-clarithromycin are different for different bacteria, the intended therapeutic effect could be impaired during concomitant administration of clarithromycin and enzyme inducers.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of clozapine effectiveness if coadministered with lorlatinib. Consideration should be given to increasing the clozapine dose if necessary. When lorlatinib is discontinued, reduce the clozapine dose based on clinical response. Lorlatinib is a moderate inducer of CYP3A4, one of the isoenzymes responsible for the metabolism of clozapine.
Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lorlatinib with cobicistat due to increased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions of lorlatinib; plasma concentrations of cobicistat may also decrease. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of lorlatinib from 100 mg to 75 mg once daily, or from 75 mg to 50 mg once daily. If cobicistat is discontinued, resume the original dose of lorlatinib after 3 half-lives of cobicistat. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Cobicistat is a CYP3A4 substrate and a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased lorlatinib exposure by 42%. Coadministration of cobicistat with moderate CYP3A4 inducers may reduce antiretroviral efficacy and increase the potential development of viral resistance.
Cobimetinib: (Major) Avoid the concurrent use of cobimetinib with lorlatinib due to decreased cobimetinib efficacy. Cobimetinib is a CYP3A substrate, and lorlatinib is a moderate inducer of CYP3A. Based on simulations, cobimetinib exposure would decrease by 73% when coadministered with a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with lorlatinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If lorlatinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with lorlatinib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A4 metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with lorlatinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If lorlatinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with lorlatinib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A4 metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with lorlatinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If lorlatinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with lorlatinib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A4 metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with lorlatinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If lorlatinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with lorlatinib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A4 metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with lorlatinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If lorlatinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with lorlatinib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A4 metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with lorlatinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If lorlatinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with lorlatinib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A4 metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Conjugated Estrogens: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be considered where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on lorlatinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Conjugated Estrogens; Bazedoxifene: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be considered where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on lorlatinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Conjugated Estrogens; medroxyPROGESTERone: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be considered where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on lorlatinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Women taking both progestins and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Crinecerfont: (Major) Increase the crinecerfont evening dose 2-fold if concomitant use with lorlatinib is necessary. Concomitant use is expected to decrease crinecerfont exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Crinecerfont is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Closely monitor cyclosporine concentrations and adjust the dose of cyclosporine as appropriate if coadministration with lorlatinib is necessary. The dose of cyclosporine may need to be adjusted. Concurrent use may decrease cyclosporine exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Cyclosporine is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 and has a narrow therapeutic index; it is also a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Lorlatinib is a weak CYP3A4 inducer and a moderate inducer of P-gp.
Dabigatran: (Major) Coadministration of dabigatran with lorlatinib should generally be avoided due to the risk of deceased dabigatran exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Dabigatran is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and lorlatinib is a P-gp inducer.
Dabrafenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lorlatinib and dabrafenib due to decreased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, increase the dose of lorlatinib to 125 mg PO once daily. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and dabrafenib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Administration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased lorlatinib exposure by 23%.
Dapsone: (Moderate) Closely monitor for a reduction in dapsone efficacy and signs of hemolytic anemia if coadministration with lorlatinib is necessary. Dapsone is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration may decrease plasma concentrations of dapsone and increase the formation of dapsone hydroxylamine (a metabolite associated with hemolysis).
Daridorexant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of daridorexant and lorlatinib. Coadministration may decrease daridorexant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Daridorexant is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use of another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased daridorexant overall exposure by over 50%.
Darolutamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of darolutamide with lorlatinib due to the risk of decreased darolutamide plasma concentrations which may decrease efficacy. Lorlatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inducer and a moderate inducer of CYP3A4; darolutamide is a CYP3A4 substrate. Concomitant use with combined P-gp and moderate CYP3A4 inducers is expected to decrease darolutamide exposure by 36% to 58%.
Darunavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lorlatinib with darunavir due to increased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. Plasma concentrations of darunavir may also occur, leading to a reduction of antiviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of lorlatinib from 100 mg to 75 mg once daily, or from 75 mg to 50 mg once daily. If darunavir is discontinued, resume the original dose of lorlatinib after 3 half-lives of darunavir. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate inducer. Darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor as well as a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased lorlatinib exposure by 42%.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lorlatinib with cobicistat due to increased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions of lorlatinib; plasma concentrations of cobicistat may also decrease. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of lorlatinib from 100 mg to 75 mg once daily, or from 75 mg to 50 mg once daily. If cobicistat is discontinued, resume the original dose of lorlatinib after 3 half-lives of cobicistat. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Cobicistat is a CYP3A4 substrate and a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased lorlatinib exposure by 42%. Coadministration of cobicistat with moderate CYP3A4 inducers may reduce antiretroviral efficacy and increase the potential development of viral resistance. (Major) Avoid coadministration of lorlatinib with darunavir due to increased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. Plasma concentrations of darunavir may also occur, leading to a reduction of antiviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of lorlatinib from 100 mg to 75 mg once daily, or from 75 mg to 50 mg once daily. If darunavir is discontinued, resume the original dose of lorlatinib after 3 half-lives of darunavir. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate inducer. Darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor as well as a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased lorlatinib exposure by 42%.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lorlatinib with cobicistat due to increased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions of lorlatinib; plasma concentrations of cobicistat may also decrease. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of lorlatinib from 100 mg to 75 mg once daily, or from 75 mg to 50 mg once daily. If cobicistat is discontinued, resume the original dose of lorlatinib after 3 half-lives of cobicistat. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Cobicistat is a CYP3A4 substrate and a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased lorlatinib exposure by 42%. Coadministration of cobicistat with moderate CYP3A4 inducers may reduce antiretroviral efficacy and increase the potential development of viral resistance. (Major) Avoid coadministration of lorlatinib with darunavir due to increased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. Plasma concentrations of darunavir may also occur, leading to a reduction of antiviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of lorlatinib from 100 mg to 75 mg once daily, or from 75 mg to 50 mg once daily. If darunavir is discontinued, resume the original dose of lorlatinib after 3 half-lives of darunavir. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate inducer. Darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor as well as a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased lorlatinib exposure by 42%. (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in tenofovir alafenamide efficacy during concomitant use of tenofovir alafenamide and lorlatinib. Concomitant use may decrease tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and lorlatinib is a P-gp inducer. Concomitant use with another P-gp inducer reduced tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 55%.
Deflazacort: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of deflazacort and lorlatinib. Concurrent use may significantly decrease concentrations of 21-desDFZ , the active metabolite of deflazacort, resulting in loss of efficacy. Deflazacort is a CYP3A4 substrate; lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Administration of deflazacort with multiple doses of another strong CYP3A4 inducer resulted in geometric mean exposures that were approximately 95% lower compared to administration alone.
Dengue Tetravalent Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of the live dengue virus vaccine with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be considered where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on lorlatinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Women taking both progestins and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be considered where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on lorlatinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Women taking both progestins and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Monitor for diazepam withdrawal symptoms or lack of efficacy if coadministration with lorlatinib is necessary. Lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer and diazepam is a primarily metabolized by CYP2C19 at low concentrations, but at higher concentrations CYP3A4 is also involved. Coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of diazepam.
Dienogest; Estradiol valerate: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be considered where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on lorlatinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Women taking both progestins and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Digoxin: (Moderate) Increase monitoring of serum digoxin concentrations when starting, adjusting, or discontinuing lorlatinib. Concurrent use may decrease digoxin exposure. Digoxin is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate with a narrow therapeutic index and lorlatinib is a P-gp inducer.
dilTIAZem: (Major) Avoid coadministration of diltiazem and lorlatinib if possible due to decreased plasma concentrations of diltiazem; if unavoidable, monitor blood pressure and heart rate and adjust the diltiazem dose based on clinical response. Diltiazem is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreased diltiazem exposure by 69% and decreased exposure to desacetyldiltiazem by 75%.
Dolutegravir: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of dolutegravir if coadministered with lorlatinib. Concurrent use may decrease the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A4 substrate as well as a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer and a P-gp inducer.
Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of dolutegravir if coadministered with lorlatinib. Concurrent use may decrease the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A4 substrate as well as a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer and a P-gp inducer.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Close clinical monitoring is advised when administering lorlatinib with rilpivirine due to the potential for rilpivirine treatment failure. Although this interaction has not been studied, predictions can be made based on metabolic pathways. Lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer and rilpivirine is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration may result in decreased rilpivirine serum concentrations and impaired virologic response. (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of dolutegravir if coadministered with lorlatinib. Concurrent use may decrease the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Dolutegravir is a CYP3A4 substrate as well as a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer and a P-gp inducer.
Doravirine: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and lorlatinib may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Doravirine; Islatravir: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and lorlatinib may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and lorlatinib may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Dordaviprone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and lorlatinib. Concurrent use may decrease dordaviprone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce dordaviprone overall exposure by 65%.
DOXOrubicin Liposomal: (Major) Avoid coadministration of doxorubicin with lorlatinib due to decreased doxorubicin plasma concentrations. Doxorubicin is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Inducers of CYP3A4 may decrease the concentration of doxorubicin and compromise the efficacy of chemotherapy.
DOXOrubicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of doxorubicin with lorlatinib due to decreased doxorubicin plasma concentrations. Doxorubicin is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Inducers of CYP3A4 may decrease the concentration of doxorubicin and compromise the efficacy of chemotherapy.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of dronabinol if coadministration with lorlatinib is necessary. Dronabinol is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Formal drug interaction studies have not been conducted; however, inducers of CYP3A4 may decrease dronabinol exposure.
Drospirenone: (Major) Women taking both progestins and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Drospirenone; Estetrol: (Major) Women taking both progestins and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Drospirenone; Estradiol: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be considered where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on lorlatinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Women taking both progestins and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be considered where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on lorlatinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Women taking both progestins and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be considered where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on lorlatinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Women taking both progestins and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Duvelisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of duvelisib with lorlatinib. Coadministration may decrease the exposure of duvelisib, which may reduce the efficacy of duvelisib. If concomitant use is necessary, increase the dose of duvelisib on day 12 of coadministration from 25 mg PO twice daily to 40 mg PO twice daily; or from 15 mg PO twice daily to 25 mg PO twice daily. When lorlatinib has been discontinued for at least 14 days, resume duvelisib at the dose taken prior to initiating treatment with lorlatinib. Duvelisib is a CYP3A substrate; lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of duvelisib with another moderate CYP3A inducer for 12 days decreased duvelisib exposure by 35%.
Edoxaban: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of edoxaban if coadministration with lorlatinib is necessary; decreased concentrations of edoxaban may occur with concomitant use. Edoxaban is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and lorlatinib is a P-gp inducer.
Efavirenz: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lorlatinib and efavirenz due to decreased plasma concentrations of both drugs, which may reduce efficacy and increase the potential for viral resistance. If concomitant use is necessary, increase the dose of lorlatinib to 125 mg PO once daily. Both lorlatinib and efavirenz are CYP3A4 substrates and moderate CYP3A4 inducers. Administration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased lorlatinib exposure by 23%.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lorlatinib and efavirenz due to decreased plasma concentrations of both drugs, which may reduce efficacy and increase the potential for viral resistance. If concomitant use is necessary, increase the dose of lorlatinib to 125 mg PO once daily. Both lorlatinib and efavirenz are CYP3A4 substrates and moderate CYP3A4 inducers. Administration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased lorlatinib exposure by 23%.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lorlatinib and efavirenz due to decreased plasma concentrations of both drugs, which may reduce efficacy and increase the potential for viral resistance. If concomitant use is necessary, increase the dose of lorlatinib to 125 mg PO once daily. Both lorlatinib and efavirenz are CYP3A4 substrates and moderate CYP3A4 inducers. Administration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased lorlatinib exposure by 23%.
Elacestrant: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of elacestrant and lorlatinib due to the risk of decreased elacestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Elacestrant is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced elacestrant overall exposure by 55% to 73%.
Elagolix: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lorlatinib and elagolix due to decreased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, increase the dose of lorlatinib to 125 mg PO once daily. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and elagolix is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Administration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased lorlatinib exposure by 23%.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lorlatinib and elagolix due to decreased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, increase the dose of lorlatinib to 125 mg PO once daily. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and elagolix is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Administration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased lorlatinib exposure by 23%. (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be considered where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on lorlatinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Women taking both progestins and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Elbasvir; Grazoprevir: (Major) Coadministration of elbasvir with lorlatinib is not recommended due to decreased exposure of elbasvir, resulting in decreased virologic response. Elbasvir is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. (Major) Coadministration of grazoprevir with lorlatinib is not recommended due to decreased exposure of grazoprevir, resulting in decreased virologic response. Grazoprevir is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Elinzanetant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and lorlatinib. Concurrent use may decrease elinzanetant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lorlatinib with cobicistat due to increased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions of lorlatinib; plasma concentrations of cobicistat may also decrease. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of lorlatinib from 100 mg to 75 mg once daily, or from 75 mg to 50 mg once daily. If cobicistat is discontinued, resume the original dose of lorlatinib after 3 half-lives of cobicistat. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Cobicistat is a CYP3A4 substrate and a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased lorlatinib exposure by 42%. Coadministration of cobicistat with moderate CYP3A4 inducers may reduce antiretroviral efficacy and increase the potential development of viral resistance. (Moderate) Coadministration may result in significant decreases in the plasma concentrations of elvitegravir, leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Elvitegravir is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in tenofovir alafenamide efficacy during concomitant use of tenofovir alafenamide and lorlatinib. Concomitant use may decrease tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and lorlatinib is a P-gp inducer. Concomitant use with another P-gp inducer reduced tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 55%.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lorlatinib with cobicistat due to increased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions of lorlatinib; plasma concentrations of cobicistat may also decrease. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of lorlatinib from 100 mg to 75 mg once daily, or from 75 mg to 50 mg once daily. If cobicistat is discontinued, resume the original dose of lorlatinib after 3 half-lives of cobicistat. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Cobicistat is a CYP3A4 substrate and a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased lorlatinib exposure by 42%. Coadministration of cobicistat with moderate CYP3A4 inducers may reduce antiretroviral efficacy and increase the potential development of viral resistance. (Moderate) Coadministration may result in significant decreases in the plasma concentrations of elvitegravir, leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Elvitegravir is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in linagliptin efficacy during concomitant use of linagliptin and lorlatinib if coadministration is required. Concomitant use may decrease linagliptin exposure. Linagliptin is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and lorlatinib is a P-gp inducer. Concomitant use with a strong CYP3A and P-gp inducer reduced linagliptin overall exposure by 0.6-fold.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in linagliptin efficacy during concomitant use of linagliptin and lorlatinib if coadministration is required. Concomitant use may decrease linagliptin exposure. Linagliptin is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and lorlatinib is a P-gp inducer. Concomitant use with a strong CYP3A and P-gp inducer reduced linagliptin overall exposure by 0.6-fold.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Close clinical monitoring is advised when administering lorlatinib with rilpivirine due to the potential for rilpivirine treatment failure. Although this interaction has not been studied, predictions can be made based on metabolic pathways. Lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer and rilpivirine is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration may result in decreased rilpivirine serum concentrations and impaired virologic response. (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in tenofovir alafenamide efficacy during concomitant use of tenofovir alafenamide and lorlatinib. Concomitant use may decrease tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and lorlatinib is a P-gp inducer. Concomitant use with another P-gp inducer reduced tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 55%.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Close clinical monitoring is advised when administering lorlatinib with rilpivirine due to the potential for rilpivirine treatment failure. Although this interaction has not been studied, predictions can be made based on metabolic pathways. Lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer and rilpivirine is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration may result in decreased rilpivirine serum concentrations and impaired virologic response.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in tenofovir alafenamide efficacy during concomitant use of tenofovir alafenamide and lorlatinib. Concomitant use may decrease tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and lorlatinib is a P-gp inducer. Concomitant use with another P-gp inducer reduced tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 55%.
Encorafenib: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of lorlatinib with encorafenib is contraindicated due to the risk severe hepatotoxicity as well as decreased lorlatinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Discontinue encorafenib for 3 plasma half-lives prior to initiating therapy with lorlatinib. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased lorlatinib exposure by 85% and caused severe (grade 3 or 4) hepatotoxicity in 83% of patients.
Ensartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with lorlatinib due to the risk of decreased ensartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Ensitrelvir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lorlatinib with ensitrelvir due to increased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of lorlatinib from 100 mg to 75 mg once daily, or from 75 mg to 50 mg once daily. If ensitrelvir is discontinued, resume the original dose of lorlatinib after 3 half-lives of ensitrelvir. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased lorlatinib exposure by 42%.
Entrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of entrectinib with lorlatinib due to decreased entrectinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Entrectinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of a moderate CYP3A4 inducer is predicted to reduce the entrectinib AUC by 56%.
Enzalutamide: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of lorlatinib with enzalutamide is contraindicated due to the risk of severe hepatotoxicity as well as decreased lorlatinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Discontinue enzalutamide for 3 plasma half-lives prior to initiating therapy with lorlatinib. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased lorlatinib exposure by 85% and caused severe (grade 3 or 4) hepatotoxicity in 83% of patients.
Erdafitinib: (Major) If coadministration of erdafitinib and lorlatinib is necessary at the initiation of erdafitinib therapy, increase the dose of erdafitinib to 9 mg once daily. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced erdafitinib overall exposure by 45%.
Erlotinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erlotinib with lorlatinib if possible, due to the risk of decreased erlotinib exposure. If coadministration is necessary, consider increasing the erlotinib dose by 50 mg increments at 2-week intervals as tolerated, to a maximum of 450 mg. Erlotinib is a CYP3A4 substrate, and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Eslicarbazepine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lorlatinib and eslicarbazepine due to decreased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, increase the dose of lorlatinib to 125 mg PO once daily. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and eslicarbazepine is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Administration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased lorlatinib exposure by 23%.
Esterified Estrogens: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be considered where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on lorlatinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Esterified Estrogens; methylTESTOSTERone: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be considered where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on lorlatinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Estradiol: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be considered where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on lorlatinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Estradiol; Levonorgestrel: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be considered where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on lorlatinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Women taking both progestins and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Estradiol; Norethindrone: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be considered where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on lorlatinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Women taking both progestins and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Estradiol; Norgestimate: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be considered where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on lorlatinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Women taking both progestins and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Estradiol; Progesterone: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be considered where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on lorlatinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Women taking both progestins and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Estrogens affected by CYP3A inducers: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be considered where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on lorlatinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be considered where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on lorlatinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Women taking both progestins and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be considered where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on lorlatinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Women taking both progestins and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be considered where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on lorlatinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Women taking both progestins and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be considered where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on lorlatinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Women taking both progestins and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Etonogestrel: (Major) Women taking both progestins and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be considered where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on lorlatinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Women taking both progestins and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Etravirine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lorlatinib and etravirine due to decreased plasma concentrations of both drugs, which may reduce efficacy and increase the potential for viral resistance. If concomitant use is necessary, increase the dose of lorlatinib to 125 mg PO once daily. Both drugs are CYP3A substrates and moderate inducers. Administration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased lorlatinib exposure by 23%.
Everolimus: (Moderate) Monitor everolimus whole blood trough concentrations as appropriate if coadministration with lorlatinib is necessary. The dose of everolimus may need to be increased. Everolimus is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with CYP3A4 inducers may increase the metabolism of everolimus and decrease everolimus blood concentrations.
Fedratinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of fedratinib with lorlatinib as concurrent use may decrease fedratinib exposure which may result in decreased therapeutic response. Fedratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of fedratinib with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreased the overall exposure of fedratinib by 47%.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Consider an increased dose of fentanyl and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with lorlatinib is necessary. If lorlatinib is discontinued, consider reducing the fentanyl dosage and monitor for evidence of respiratory depression. Coadministration of a moderate CYP3A4 inducer like lorlatinib with fentanyl, a CYP3A4 substrate, may decrease exposure to fentanyl resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of withdrawal symptoms in a patient who has developed physical dependence to fentanyl. Fentanyl plasma concentrations will increase once the inducer is stopped, which may increase or prolong the therapeutic and adverse effects, including serious respiratory depression.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lorlatinib and fexinidazole due to decreased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, increase the dose of lorlatinib to 125 mg PO once daily. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Administration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased lorlatinib exposure by 23%.
Finerenone: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of finerenone and lorlatinib due to the risk for decreased finerenone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Finerenone is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased overall exposure to finerenone by 80%.
Flibanserin: (Major) Coadministration of flibanserin with lorlatinib is not recommended due to decreased plasma concentrations of flibanserin. Flibanserin is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreased flibanserin exposure by approximately 21%.
Fluconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lorlatinib and fluconazole due to increased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the starting dose of lorlatinib to 75 mg PO once daily. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and fluconazole is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use with fluconazole 200 mg once daily is predicted to increase the steady-state AUC of lorlatinib by 59%.
Flurazepam: (Moderate) Monitor for withdrawal symptoms or lack of efficacy if coadministration of flurazepam with lorlatinib is necessary. Flurazepam is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration may decrease plasma concentrations of flurazepam.
Fosamprenavir: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased fosamprenavir efficacy if coadministered with lorlatinib. Concurrent use may decrease the plasma concentrations of fosamprenavir leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Fosamprenavir is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Fosphenytoin: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of lorlatinib with fosphenytoin is contraindicated due to the risk of severe hepatotoxicity as well as decreased lorlatinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Discontinue fosphenytoin for 3 plasma half-lives prior to initiating therapy with lorlatinib. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and fosphenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased lorlatinib exposure by 85% and caused severe (grade 3 or 4) hepatotoxicity in 83% of patients.
Fruquintinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of fruquintinib with lorlatinib if possible due to the risk for decreased fruquintinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. If concomitant use of fruquintinib and lorlatinib is necessary, monitor for decreased efficacy. Fruquintinib is a CYP3A substrate; lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease fruquintinib exposure by 32%.
Ganaxolone: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ganaxolone and lorlatinib due to the risk of decreased ganaxolone efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider increasing ganaxolone dose without exceeding the maximum daily dose. Ganaxolone is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Gepotidacin: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in gepotidacin efficacy if concomitant use of gepotidacin and lorlatinib is necessary; avoid use if gepotidacin is being used to treat gonorrhea. Concurrent use may decrease gepotidacin exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Gepotidacin is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce gepotidacin overall exposure by 49%.
Glasdegib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib and lorlatinib due to the potential for decreased glasdegib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. If concurrent use cannot be avoided, increase the glasdegib dosage (i.e., from 100 mg PO daily to 200 mg PO daily; or from 50 mg PO daily to 100 mg PO daily). Resume the previous dose of glasdegib after lorlatinib has been discontinued for 7 days. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate; lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer was predicted to decrease the glasdegib AUC value by 55%.
Glecaprevir; Pibrentasvir: (Moderate) Caution is advised with coadministration of glecaprevir and lorlatinib as decreased plasma concentrations of glecaprevir may occur resulting in the potential loss of efficacy of glecaprevir. Glecaprevir is a substrate of CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer as well as an inducer of P-gp. (Moderate) Caution is advised with coadministration of pibrentasvir and lorlatinib as decreased plasma concentrations of pibrentasvir may occur resulting in the potential loss of efficacy of pibrentasvir. Pibrentasvir is a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and lorlatinib is a P-gp inducer.
guanFACINE: (Major) A dose increase of extended-release (ER) guanfacine should be considered if coadministration with lorlatinib is necessary. Consider doubling the recommended dose of guanfacine if therapy is added to a patient already taking lorlatinib; increase the dose of guanfacine over 1 to 2 weeks if lorlatinib therapy is added to a patient already taking guanfacine. Specific recommendations for immediate-release (IR) guanfacine are not available. Guanfacine is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with lorlatinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If lorlatinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use can decrease hydrocodone levels.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with lorlatinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If lorlatinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use can decrease hydrocodone levels.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with lorlatinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If lorlatinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use can decrease hydrocodone levels.
Iberdomide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and lorlatinib. Concurrent use may decrease iberdomide exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce iberdomide overall exposure by 70%.
Ibrexafungerp: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of ibrexafungerp with lorlatinib. Use of these drugs together is expected to significantly decrease ibrexafungerp exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Ibrexafungerp is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Idelalisib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lorlatinib with idelalisib due to increased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of lorlatinib from 100 mg to 75 mg once daily, or from 75 mg to 50 mg once daily. If idelalisib is discontinued, resume the original dose of lorlatinib after 3 half-lives of idelalisib. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and idelalisib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased lorlatinib exposure by 42%.
Ifosfamide: (Moderate) Closely monitor for increased ifosfamide-related toxicities (e.g., neurotoxicity, nephrotoxicity) if coadministration with lorlatinib is necessary; consider adjusting the dose of ifosfamide as clinically appropriate. Ifosfamide is metabolized to its active alkylating metabolites by CYP3A4; lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use may increase the formation of the neurotoxic/nephrotoxic ifosfamide metabolite, chloroacetaldehyde.
Infigratinib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of infigratinib and lorlatinib. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Isradipine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of isradipine if coadministration with lorlatinib is necessary. Isradipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration may decrease isradipine plasma concentrations.
Itraconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lorlatinib with itraconazole if possible due to the increased risk of lorlatinib-related adverse reactions; itraconazole exposure may also decrease. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of lorlatinib from 100 mg to 75 mg once daily, or from 75 mg to 50 mg once daily. If itraconazole is discontinued, resume the original dose of lorlatinib after 3 half-lives of itraconazole. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate inducer. Itraconazole is a CYP3A substrate and strong inhibitor. Coadministration with itraconazole increased lorlatinib exposure by 42%.
Ketoconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lorlatinib with ketoconazole due to increased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions of lorlatinib. If concomitant use is unavoidable, decrease the starting dose of lorlatinib from 100 mg PO once daily to 75 mg PO once daily. In patients who have already had a dose reduction to 75 mg PO once daily due to adverse reactions, reduce the dose of lorlatinib to 50 mg PO once daily. If ketoconazole is discontinued, increase the dose of lorlatinib after 3 plasma half-lives of ketoconazole to the dose that was used before starting ketoconazole. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the AUC and Cmax of lorlatinib by 42% and 24%, respectively.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lorlatinib with clarithromycin due to increased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions of lorlatinib; plasma concentrations of clarithromycin may also decrease. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of lorlatinib from 100 mg to 75 mg once daily, or from 75 mg to 50 mg once daily. If clarithromycin is discontinued, resume the original dose of lorlatinib after 3 plasma half-lives of clarithromycin. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Clarithromycin is a CYP3A4 substrate and strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased lorlatinib exposure by 42%. Inducers of CYP3A enzymes will decrease plasma concentrations of clarithromycin while increasing those of 14-OH-clarithromycin. Since the microbiological activities of clarithromycin and 14-OH-clarithromycin are different for different bacteria, the intended therapeutic effect could be impaired during concomitant administration of clarithromycin and enzyme inducers.
Larotrectinib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of larotrectinib and lorlatinib due to the risk of decreased larotrectinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, double the dose of larotrectinib and monitor response. If lorlatinib is discontinued, resume the original larotrectinib dose after 3 to 5 elimination half-lives of lorlatinib. Larotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease larotrectinib exposure by 72%.
Lazertinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lazertinib and lorlatinib. Concurrent use may decrease lazertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Lazertinib is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease lazertinib overall exposure by at least 44%.
Ledipasvir; Sofosbuvir: (Major) Coadministration of ledipasvir with lorlatinib is not recommended. Taking these drugs together may decrease ledipasvir plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in loss of antiviral efficacy. Ledipasvir is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and lorlatinib is a P-gp inducer.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lefamulin with lorlatinib unless the benefits outweigh the risks as concurrent use may decrease lefamulin exposure and efficacy. Lefamulin is a CYP3A4 substrate and P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate. Lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer as well as a P-gp inducer. Coadministration of a combined P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the mean AUC of lefamulin oral tablets by 72% and the mean AUC of lefamulin injection by 28%.
Lemborexant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lemborexant and lorlatinib as concurrent use may decrease lemborexant exposure which may reduce efficacy. Lemborexant is a CYP3A4 substrate; lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Lenacapavir: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of lenacapavir for HIV treatment and lorlatinib due to the risk for decreased lenacapavir exposure which may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. If lenacapavir is used for HIV PrEP and use with lorlatinib is necessary, supplemental lenacapavir doses are required to maintain effective drug concentrations. On the day lorlatinib is initiated, a supplemental lenacapavir subcutaneous dose of 463.5 mg should be administered. If lorlatinib is continued beyond 6 months, this supplemental dose should be repeated every 6 months from the start of the inducer. After discontinuation of lorlatinib, the patient should resume the standard 6-month lenacapavir injection schedule. Recommendations are not available for individuals already on lorlatinib at the time of lenacapavir initiation or those receiving weekly oral lenacapavir. Lenacapavir is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced lenacapavir overall exposure by 56%.
Leniolisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of leniolisib and lorlatinib. Concomitant use may decrease leniolisib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Leniolisib is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced leniolisib overall exposure by 58%.
Letermovir: (Major) Concurrent administration of letermovir and lorlatinib is not recommended due to the risk of decreased lorlatinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Letermovir is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and lorlatinib is a P-gp inducer.
Levamlodipine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with lorlatinib is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use may decrease amlodipine plasma concentrations, decreasing efficacy.
Levoketoconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lorlatinib with ketoconazole due to increased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions of lorlatinib. If concomitant use is unavoidable, decrease the starting dose of lorlatinib from 100 mg PO once daily to 75 mg PO once daily. In patients who have already had a dose reduction to 75 mg PO once daily due to adverse reactions, reduce the dose of lorlatinib to 50 mg PO once daily. If ketoconazole is discontinued, increase the dose of lorlatinib after 3 plasma half-lives of ketoconazole to the dose that was used before starting ketoconazole. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the AUC and Cmax of lorlatinib by 42% and 24%, respectively.
Levonorgestrel: (Major) Women taking both progestins and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be considered where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on lorlatinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Women taking both progestins and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be considered where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on lorlatinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Women taking both progestins and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be considered where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on lorlatinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Women taking both progestins and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Linagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in linagliptin efficacy during concomitant use of linagliptin and lorlatinib if coadministration is required. Concomitant use may decrease linagliptin exposure. Linagliptin is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and lorlatinib is a P-gp inducer. Concomitant use with a strong CYP3A and P-gp inducer reduced linagliptin overall exposure by 0.6-fold.
Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in linagliptin efficacy during concomitant use of linagliptin and lorlatinib if coadministration is required. Concomitant use may decrease linagliptin exposure. Linagliptin is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and lorlatinib is a P-gp inducer. Concomitant use with a strong CYP3A and P-gp inducer reduced linagliptin overall exposure by 0.6-fold.
Lonafarnib: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of lonafarnib and lorlatinib is contraindicated as use may decrease lonafarnib exposure and efficacy. Lorlatinib exposure and the risk for lorlatinib-related adverse effects may also be increased. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the starting dose of lorlatinib from 100 mg to 75 mg once daily, or from 75 mg to 50 mg once daily. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and moderate CYP3A4 inducer and lonafarnib is a CYP3A4 substrate and strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased lorlatinib exposure by 42%.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lorlatinib with ritonavir due to increased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. Ritonavir plasma concentrations may also decrease, leading to reduced efficacy and increasing the potential for viral resistance. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of lorlatinib from 100 mg to 75 mg once daily, or from 75 mg to 50 mg once daily. If ritonavir is discontinued, resume the original dose of lorlatinib after 3 half-lives of ritonavir. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate inducer. Ritonavir is a CYP3A4 substrate and strong inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased lorlatinib exposure by 42%. (Moderate) Concurrent administration of lorlatinib with lopinavir may result in decreased lopinavir plasma concentrations; thereby, reducing efficacy and increasing the potential for viral resistance. Lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Lopinavir is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of lorlatinib with lumacaftor; ivacaftor is contraindicated due to the risk severe hepatotoxicity as well as decreased lorlatinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Discontinue lumacaftor; ivacaftor for 3 plasma half-lives prior to initiating therapy with lorlatinib. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased lorlatinib exposure by 85% and caused severe (grade 3 or 4) hepatotoxicity in 83% of patients.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of lorlatinib with lumacaftor; ivacaftor is contraindicated due to the risk severe hepatotoxicity as well as decreased lorlatinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Discontinue lumacaftor; ivacaftor for 3 plasma half-lives prior to initiating therapy with lorlatinib. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased lorlatinib exposure by 85% and caused severe (grade 3 or 4) hepatotoxicity in 83% of patients.
Lumateperone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lumateperone and lorlatinib as concurrent use may decrease lumateperone exposure which may reduce efficacy. Lumateperone is a CYP3A4 substrate; lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Lurasidone: (Moderate) If lurasidone is used with lorlatinib, it may be necessary to increase the lurasidone dose after chronic treatment (7 days or more) with lorlatinib. Concurrent use may lead to a decrease in efficacy of lurasidone. Lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer; lurasidone is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Maraviroc: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in the efficacy of maraviroc if coadministration with lorlatinib is necessary. Maraviroc is a CYP3A4 substrate and a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate. Lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer as well as a P-gp inducer.
Mavacamten: (Contraindicated) Mavacamten is contraindicated for use with lorlatinib due to risk for reduced mavacamten efficacy. Concomitant use decreases mavacamten exposure. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
medroxyPROGESTERone: (Major) Women taking both progestins and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Mefloquine: (Moderate) Use mefloquine with caution if coadministration with lorlatinib is necessary as concurrent use may decrease mefloquine exposure and efficacy. Mefloquine is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Methadone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of methadone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with lorlatinib is necessary; these effects may be more pronounced with concomitant use of drugs that can induce multiple CYP enzymes. Consider increasing the dose of methadone as needed. If lorlatinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of methadone and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Methadone is a substrate of CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP3A4; lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease methadone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Methohexital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lorlatinib and methohexital due to decreased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, increase the dose of lorlatinib to 125 mg PO once daily. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and methohexital is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Administration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased lorlatinib exposure by 23%.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lorlatinib with mifepristone due to increased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of lorlatinib from 100 mg to 75 mg once daily, or from 75 mg to 50 mg once daily. If mifepristone is discontinued, resume the original dose of lorlatinib after 3 half-lives of mifepristone. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and mifepristone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased lorlatinib exposure by 42%. The clinical significance of this interaction with the short-term use of mifepristone for termination of pregnancy is unknown.
Mitapivat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with lorlatinib, if possible, due to decreased mitapivat efficacy. Coadministration decreases mitapivat concentrations. If concomitant use is necessary, up-titration of mitapivat may be required. Monitor hemoglobin and titrate the mitapivat dose based on response; do not exceed 100 mg PO twice daily. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased mitapivat overall exposure by 55% to 60%.
Mitotane: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of lorlatinib with mitotane is contraindicated due to the risk of severe hepatotoxicity as well as decreased lorlatinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Discontinue mitotane for 3 plasma half-lives prior to initiating therapy with lorlatinib. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased lorlatinib exposure by 85% and caused severe (grade 3 or 4) hepatotoxicity in 83% of patients.
Mobocertinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and lorlatinib. Coadministration may decrease mobocertinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Use of a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 58%.
Modafinil: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lorlatinib and modafinil due to decreased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, increase the dose of lorlatinib to 125 mg PO once daily. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and modafinil is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Administration with modafinil decreased lorlatinib exposure by 23%.
Nafcillin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lorlatinib and nafcillin due to decreased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, increase the dose of lorlatinib to 125 mg PO once daily. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and nafcillin is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Administration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased lorlatinib exposure by 23%.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound PACLitaxel: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of nab-paclitaxel if coadministration with loraltinib is necessary due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of paclitaxel. Nab-paclitaxel is a CYP3A4 substrate and loraltinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound Sirolimus: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sirolimus and lorlatinib as use may decrease sirolimus exposure and efficacy. Sirolimus is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A and P-gp inducer.
Nefazodone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lorlatinib with nefazodone due to increased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of lorlatinib from 100 mg to 75 mg once daily, or from 75 mg to 50 mg once daily. If nefazodone is discontinued, resume the original dose of lorlatinib after 3 half-lives of nefazodone. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and nefazodone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased lorlatinib exposure by 42%.
Nelfinavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lorlatinib with nelfinavir due to increased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. Plasma concentrations of nelfinavir may also decrease, leading to reduced efficacy and increasing the potential for viral resistance. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of lorlatinib from 100 mg to 75 mg once daily, or from 75 mg to 50 mg once daily. If nelfinavir is discontinued, resume the original dose of lorlatinib after 3 half-lives of nelfinavir. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate inducer. Nelfinavir is a CYP3A substrate and strong inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased lorlatinib exposure by 42%.
Nerandomilast: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in nerandomilast efficacy if concomitant use with lorlatinib is necessary; use a nerandomilast dosage of 18 mg twice daily and avoid a nerandomilast dosage reduction. Concurrent use may decrease nerandomilast exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Nerandomilast is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased nerandomilast overall exposure by 41%.
Neratinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lorlatinib with neratinib due to decreased efficacy of neratinib. Neratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Simulations using physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) models suggest that another moderate CYP3A4 inducer may decrease neratinib exposure by 52%.
niMODipine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of nimodipine if coadministration with lorlatinib is necessary. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use may decrease plasma concentrations of nimodipine.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lorlatinib with ritonavir due to increased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. Ritonavir plasma concentrations may also decrease, leading to reduced efficacy and increasing the potential for viral resistance. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of lorlatinib from 100 mg to 75 mg once daily, or from 75 mg to 50 mg once daily. If ritonavir is discontinued, resume the original dose of lorlatinib after 3 half-lives of ritonavir. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate inducer. Ritonavir is a CYP3A4 substrate and strong inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased lorlatinib exposure by 42%. (Moderate) Monitor for a diminished response to nirmatrelvir if concomitant use of lorlatinib is necessary. Concomitant use of nirmatrelvir and lorlatinib may reduce the therapeutic effect of nirmatrelvir. Nirmatrelvir is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Nirogacestat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of nirogacestat and lorlatinib. Concurrent use may decrease nirogacestat exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Nirogacestat is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce nirogacestat overall exposure by 67%.
Nisoldipine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nisoldipine with lorlatinib due to decreased plasma concentrations of nisoldipine. Alternative antihypertensive therapy should be considered. Nisoldipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A4 inducer lowered nisoldipine plasma concentrations to undetectable levels.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be considered where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on lorlatinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Women taking both progestins and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Norethindrone: (Major) Women taking both progestins and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be considered where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on lorlatinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Women taking both progestins and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be considered where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on lorlatinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Women taking both progestins and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be considered where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on lorlatinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Women taking both progestins and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Norgestrel: (Major) Women taking both progestins and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Olaparib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of olaparib with lorlatinib due to the risk of decreasing the efficacy of olaparib. Olaparib is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer; concomitant use may decrease olaparib exposure. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the olaparib Cmax by 31% and the AUC by 60%.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with lorlatinib is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use may decrease amlodipine plasma concentrations, decreasing efficacy.
Olutasidenib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of olutasidenib and lorlatinib due to the risk of decreased olutasidenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Olutasidenib is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Omaveloxolone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and lorlatinib. Concurrent use may decrease omaveloxolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased omaveloxolone exposure by 48%.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lorlatinib and rifabutin due to decreased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, increase the dose of lorlatinib to 125 mg PO once daily. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Administration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased lorlatinib exposure by 23%.
Orforglipron: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in orforglipron efficacy during concomitant use of orforglipron and lorlatinib; consider an orforglipron dosage increase as appropriate based on response. Concomitant use may decrease orforglipron exposure. Orforglipron is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce orforglipron overall exposure by 61%.
Oveporexton: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of oveporexton and lorlatinib. Concurrent use may decrease oveporexton exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Oveporexton is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce oveporexton overall exposure by 73%.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of oxycodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with lorlatinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of oxycodone as needed. If lorlatinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of lorlatinib and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Oxycodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease oxycodone concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
PACLitaxel: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of paclitaxel if coadministration with lorlatinib is necessary. Paclitaxel is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Pacritinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lorlatinib and pacritinib due to decreased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, increase the dose of lorlatinib to 125 mg PO once daily. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Administration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased lorlatinib exposure by 23%.
Palovarotene: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of palovarotene and lorlatinib. Concurrent use may decrease palovarotene exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Palovarotene is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Paltusotine: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in paltusotine efficacy during concomitant use of paltusotine and lorlatinib; increase the paltusotine dosage as appropriate based on response. When increasing the paltusotine dosage, do not exceed 2x the prior dose or 120 mg daily, whichever is less. Concomitant use may decrease paltusotine exposure. Paltusotine is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce paltusotine overall exposure by 30%.
Pemigatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pemigatinib and lorlatinib due to the risk of decreased pemigatinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Pemigatinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inducer is predicted to decrease pemigatinib exposure by more than 50%.
PENTobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lorlatinib and pentobarbital due to decreased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, increase the dose of lorlatinib to 125 mg PO once daily. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and pentobarbital is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Administration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased lorlatinib exposure by 23%.
Perampanel: (Major) Start perampanel at a higher initial dose of 4 mg once daily at bedtime if perampanel is added to lorlatinib therapy; increase the dose as tolerated in 2 mg increments no more than weekly, based on clinical response. If lorlatinib is added or withdrawn from perampanel therapy, closely monitor patient response; a dosage adjustment may be necessary. Perampanel is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration may decrease perampanel plasma concentrations.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with lorlatinib is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use may decrease amlodipine plasma concentrations, decreasing efficacy.
Pexidartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lorlatinib and pexidartinib due to decreased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, increase the dose of lorlatinib to 125 mg PO once daily. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and pexidartinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Administration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased lorlatinib exposure by 23%.
PHENobarbital: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of lorlatinib with phenobarbital is contraindicated due to the risk of severe hepatotoxicity as well as decreased lorlatinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Discontinue phenobarbital for 3 plasma half-lives prior to initiating therapy with lorlatinib. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and phenobarbital is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased lorlatinib exposure by 85% and caused severe (grade 3 or 4) hepatotoxicity in 83% of patients.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of lorlatinib with phenobarbital is contraindicated due to the risk of severe hepatotoxicity as well as decreased lorlatinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Discontinue phenobarbital for 3 plasma half-lives prior to initiating therapy with lorlatinib. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and phenobarbital is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased lorlatinib exposure by 85% and caused severe (grade 3 or 4) hepatotoxicity in 83% of patients.
Phenytoin: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of lorlatinib with phenytoin is contraindicated due to the risk of severe hepatotoxicity as well as decreased lorlatinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Discontinue phenytoin for 3 plasma half-lives prior to initiating therapy with lorlatinib. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased lorlatinib exposure by 85% and caused severe (grade 3 or 4) hepatotoxicity in 83% of patients.
Pimavanserin: (Major) Because pimavanserin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, the manufacturer recommends avoiding concomitant use of pimavanserin with moderate CYP3A4 inducers, such as lorlatinib. Moderate inducers of CYP3A4 can reduce pimavanserin exposure, potentially decreasing the effectiveness of pimavanserin.
Pirtobrutinib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of pirtobrutinib and lorlatinib due to the risk of decreased pirtobrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, an empiric pirtobrutinib dosage increase is required. If the current dosage is 200 mg once daily, increase the dose to 300 mg; if the current dosage is 50 mg or 100 mg once daily, increase the dose by 50 mg. Pirtobrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with other moderate CYP3A inducers reduced pirtobrutinib overall exposure by 27% and 49%.
Posaconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lorlatinib with posaconazole due to increased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions; posaconazole exposure may also decrease. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of lorlatinib from 100 mg to 75 mg once daily, or from 75 mg to 50 mg once daily. If posaconazole is discontinued, resume the original dose of lorlatinib after 3 half-lives of posaconazole. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inducer. Posaconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor and a P-gp substrate. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased lorlatinib exposure by 42%.
Pralsetinib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of lorlatinib and pralsetinib due to the risk of decreased pralsetinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, increase the current dose of pralsetinib (400 mg to 600 mg; 300 mg to 500 mg; 200 mg to 300 mg) starting on day 7 of coadministration. Pralsetinib is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased the pralsetinib overall exposure by 45%.
Praziquantel: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of praziquantel and lorlatinib. Concurrent use may decrease praziquantel exposure which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for reduced response to praziquantel. Praziquantel is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. When praziquantel was administered after 13 days of treatment with a moderate CYP3A inducer, the mean praziquantel AUC was 77% lower than when praziquantel was given alone.
Pretomanid: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with lorlatinib as concurrent use may decrease pretomanid exposure which may lead to decreased efficacy. Pretomanid is a CYP3A4 substrate; lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreased pretomanid exposure by 35%.
Primidone: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of lorlatinib with primidone is contraindicated due to the risk of severe hepatotoxicity as well as decreased lorlatinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Discontinue primidone for 3 plasma half-lives prior to initiating therapy with lorlatinib. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and primidone is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased lorlatinib exposure by 85% and caused severe (grade 3 or 4) hepatotoxicity in 83% of patients.
Progesterone: (Major) Women taking both progestins and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Progestins: (Major) Women taking both progestins and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Quizartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lorlatinib with quizartinib due to the risk of decreased quizartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased the quizartinib overall exposure by 90%.
Ranolazine: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of lorlatinib with ranolazine is contraindicated due to decreased plasma concentrations of ranolazine resulting in decreased efficacy. Lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer and ranolazine is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Relacorilant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lorlatinib with relacorilant. Concomitant use may increase lorlatinib plasma concentrations, which may increase the incidence and severity of lorlatinib-related adverse reactions. Concomitant use may also decrease relacorilant exposure. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the starting dose of lorlatinib from 100 mg to 75 mg once daily, or from 75 mg to 50 mg once daily. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer, and relacorilant is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased lorlatinib exposure by 42%.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be considered where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on lorlatinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Women taking both progestins and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Remibrutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and lorlatinib. Concurrent use may decrease remibrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced remibrutinib overall exposure by 64%.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lorlatinib and repotrectinib. Coadministration may decrease plasma concentrations of both medications and reduce their efficacy. While use is not recommended, if concomitant use is necessary, increase the dose of lorlatinib to 125 mg PO once daily. Both medications are CYP3A substrates and moderate CYP3A inducers. Administration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased lorlatinib exposure by 23%.
Revumenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of revumenib and lorlatinib. Concurrent use may decrease revumenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Additionally, concomitant use may increase exposure to M1, the active metabolite of revumenib, which may increase the risk for adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Revumenib is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Ribociclib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lorlatinib with ribociclib due to increased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of lorlatinib from 100 mg to 75 mg once daily, or from 75 mg to 50 mg once daily. If ribociclib is discontinued, resume the original dose of lorlatinib after 3 half-lives of ribociclib. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased lorlatinib exposure by 42%.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lorlatinib with ribociclib due to increased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of lorlatinib from 100 mg to 75 mg once daily, or from 75 mg to 50 mg once daily. If ribociclib is discontinued, resume the original dose of lorlatinib after 3 half-lives of ribociclib. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased lorlatinib exposure by 42%.
Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lorlatinib and rifabutin due to decreased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, increase the dose of lorlatinib to 125 mg PO once daily. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Administration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased lorlatinib exposure by 23%.
rifAMPin: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of lorlatinib with rifampin is contraindicated due to the risk of severe hepatotoxicity as well as decreased lorlatinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Discontinue rifampin for 3 plasma half-lives prior to initiating therapy with lorlatinib. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with rifampin decreased lorlatinib exposure by 85%. Additionally, severe hepatotoxicity occurred, with 50% of patients experiencing grade 4 elevations of ALT/AST, 33% with grade 3 AST/ALT elevations, and 8% with grade 2 ALT/AST elevations. Grade 2 to 4 increases in ALT/AST occurred within 3 days of concomitant use and returned to normal limits within 7 to 34 days (median, 15 days).
Rifapentine: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of lorlatinib with rifapentine is contraindicated due to the risk severe hepatotoxicity as well as decreased lorlatinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Discontinue rifapentine for 3 plasma half-lives prior to initiating therapy with lorlatinib. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased lorlatinib exposure by 85% and caused severe (grade 3 or 4) hepatotoxicity in 83% of patients.
Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Close clinical monitoring is advised when administering lorlatinib with rilpivirine due to the potential for rilpivirine treatment failure. Although this interaction has not been studied, predictions can be made based on metabolic pathways. Lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer and rilpivirine is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration may result in decreased rilpivirine serum concentrations and impaired virologic response.
Rilzabrutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and lorlatinib. Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce rilzabrutinib overall exposure by up to 70%.
Rimegepant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with lorlatinib; concurrent use may significantly decrease rimegepant exposure which may result in loss of efficacy. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Ripretinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ripretinib with lorlatinib. If concomitant use is unavoidable, increase the frequency of ripretinib dosing from 150 mg once daily to 150 mg twice daily; monitor for clinical response and tolerability. Resume once daily dosing of ripretinib 14 days after discontinuation of lorlatinib. Coadministration is predicted to decrease the exposure of ripretinib and its active metabolite (DP-5439), which may decrease ripretinib anti-tumor activity. Ripretinib and DP-5439 are metabolized by CYP3A and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Drug interaction modeling studies suggest coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inducer may decrease ripretinib exposure by 56%.
Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lorlatinib with ritonavir due to increased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. Ritonavir plasma concentrations may also decrease, leading to reduced efficacy and increasing the potential for viral resistance. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of lorlatinib from 100 mg to 75 mg once daily, or from 75 mg to 50 mg once daily. If ritonavir is discontinued, resume the original dose of lorlatinib after 3 half-lives of ritonavir. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate inducer. Ritonavir is a CYP3A4 substrate and strong inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased lorlatinib exposure by 42%.
Saquinavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lorlatinib with saquinavir due to increased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. Plasma concentrations of saquinavir may also decrease, leading to reduced efficacy and increasing the potential for viral resistance. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of lorlatinib from 100 mg to 75 mg once daily, or from 75 mg to 50 mg once daily. If saquinavir is discontinued, resume the original dose of lorlatinib after 3 half-lives of saquinavir. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate inducer. Saquinavir is a CYP3A4 substrate and strong inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased lorlatinib exposure by 42%.
SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) vaccines: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) mRNA Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) Recombinant Spike Protein Nanoparticle Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
Sebetralstat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sebetralstat and lorlatinib. Concurrent use may decrease sebetralstat exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sebetralstat is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced sebetralstat overall exposure by 79%.
Secobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lorlatinib and secobarbital due to decreased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, increase the dose of lorlatinib to 125 mg PO once daily. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and secobarbital is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Administration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased lorlatinib exposure by 23%.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be considered where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on lorlatinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Women taking both progestins and lorlatinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed lorlatinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of lorlatinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Selpercatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of selpercatinib and lorlatinib due to the risk of decreased selpercatinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Selpercatinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A4 inducers is predicted to decrease selpercatinib exposure by 40% to 70%.
Selumetinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of selumetinib and lorlatinib due to the risk of decreased selumetinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Selumetinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inducer is predicted to decrease selumetinib exposure by 38%.
Sevabertinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and lorlatinib. Concurrent use may decrease sevabertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Sildenafil: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of sildenafil if coadministration with lorlatinib is necessary as concurrent use may decrease sildenafil exposure. Sildenafil is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Population pharmacokinetic analysis indicates an approximately 3-fold increase in sildenafil clearance with concomitant use of weak CYP3A4 inducers.
Siponimod: (Moderate) Concomitant use of siponimod and lorlatinib is not recommended for patients with CYP2C9*1/*3 and *2/*3 genotypes due to a significant decrease in siponimod exposure. Siponimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A4 substrate; lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Across different CYP2C9 genotypes, a moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreased the exposure of siponimod by up to 52% according to in silico evaluation.
Sirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor sirolimus concentrations and adjust sirolimus dosage as appropriate during concomitant use of lorlatinib. Concomitant use may decrease sirolimus exposure and efficacy. Sirolimus is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A and P-gp inducer.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir: (Major) Coadministration of velpatasvir with lorlatinib is not recommended due to the potential for loss of antiviral efficacy. Taking these drugs together may significantly decrease velpatasvir plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in loss of antiviral efficacy. Velpatasvir is a CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate. Lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer as well as a P-gp inducer.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir; Voxilaprevir: (Major) Coadministration of velpatasvir with lorlatinib is not recommended due to the potential for loss of antiviral efficacy. Taking these drugs together may significantly decrease velpatasvir plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in loss of antiviral efficacy. Velpatasvir is a CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate. Lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer as well as a P-gp inducer. (Major) Coadministration of voxilaprevir with lorlatinib is not recommended due to decreased plasma concentrations of voxilaprevir, potentially resulting in loss of antiviral efficacy. Voxilaprevir is a CYP3A4 substrate as well as a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate. Lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer and a P-gp inducer.
Solifenacin: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of solifenacin if coadministration with lorlatinib is necessary. Solifenacin is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Studies have not been conducted to evaluate the effect of CYP3A4 inducers on solifenacin, but inducers of CYP3A4 may decrease solifenacin plasma concentrations.
Sonidegib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and lorlatinib; sonidegib exposure may be significantly decreased and its efficacy reduced. Sonidegib is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inducer for 14 days decreased the geometric mean AUC of sonidegib by 56%; coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inducer for 4 months decreased the sonidegib AUC by 69%.
Sonrotoclax: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonrotoclax and lorlatinib. Concurrent use may decrease sonrotoclax exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Sotorasib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lorlatinib and sotorasib due to decreased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, increase the dose of lorlatinib to 125 mg PO once daily. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and sotorasib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Administration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased lorlatinib exposure by 23%.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of lorlatinib with St. Johns Wort is contraindicated due to the risk of severe hepatotoxicity as well as decreased lorlatinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Discontinue St. Johns Wort for 3 plasma half-lives prior to initiating therapy with lorlatinib. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and St. Johns Wort is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased lorlatinib exposure by 85% and caused severe (grade 3 or 4) hepatotoxicity in 83% of patients.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Because the dose of the sufentanil sublingual tablets cannot be titrated, consider an alternate opiate if lorlatinib must be administered. Monitor for reduced efficacy of sufentanil injection and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with lorlatinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of sufentanil injection as needed. If lorlatinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of sufentanil injection and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Sufentanil is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease sufentanil concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Suzetrigine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of suzetrigine and lorlatinib. Concurrent use may decrease suzetrigine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 63% and 60%, respectively.
Tacrolimus: (Moderate) Measure tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and adjust the dose as clinically appropriate if coadministration with lorlatinib is necessary. Tacrolimus is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inducer may significantly increase tacrolimus clearance.
Taletrectinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and lorlatinib. Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease taletrectinib overall exposure by 66%.
Tazemetostat: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of tazemetostat and lorlatinib due to the risk for decreased tazemetostat exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Tazemetostat is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with lorlatinib is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use may decrease amlodipine plasma concentrations, decreasing efficacy.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with lorlatinib is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use may decrease amlodipine plasma concentrations, decreasing efficacy.
Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in tenofovir alafenamide efficacy during concomitant use of tenofovir alafenamide and lorlatinib. Concomitant use may decrease tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and lorlatinib is a P-gp inducer. Concomitant use with another P-gp inducer reduced tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 55%.
Tipranavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lorlatinib with tipranavir due to increased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. Plasma concentrations of tipranavir may also decrease, leading to reduced efficacy and increasing the potential for viral resistance. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of lorlatinib from 100 mg to 75 mg once daily, or from 75 mg to 50 mg once daily. If tipranavir is discontinued, resume the original dose of lorlatinib after 3 half-lives of tipranavir. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate inducer. Tipranavir is a CYP3A substrate and strong inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased lorlatinib exposure by 42%.
traMADol: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of tramadol and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with lorlatinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of tramadol as needed. If lorlatinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of tramadol and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Tramadol is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease tramadol levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of tramadol and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with lorlatinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of tramadol as needed. If lorlatinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of tramadol and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Tramadol is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease tramadol levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Tucatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lorlatinib with tucatinib due to increased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of lorlatinib from 100 mg to 75 mg once daily, or from 75 mg to 50 mg once daily. If tucatinib is discontinued, resume the original dose of lorlatinib after 3 half-lives of tucatinib. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased lorlatinib exposure by 42%.
Ubrogepant: (Major) Increase the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 100 mg if coadministered with lorlatinib as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce its efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Ulipristal: (Major) Do not administer ulipristal with lorlatinib due to decreased plasma concentrations of ulipristal. Ulipristal is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use may significantly decrease ulipristal exposure.
Vanzacaftor; Tezacaftor; Deutivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor and lorlatinib. Concurrent use may decrease vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced vanzacaftor and deutivacaftor overall exposure by 69% and 73%, respectively.
Vanzacaftor; Tezacaftor; Deutivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor and lorlatinib. Concurrent use may decrease vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer reduced vanzacaftor and deutivacaftor overall exposure by 69% and 73%, respectively.
Venetoclax: (Major) Avoid coadministration of venetoclax with lorlatinib as concurrent use may decrease venetoclax exposure and lead to reduced efficacy. Venetoclax is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased venetoclax exposure by 71%.
vinCRIStine Liposomal: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vincristine and lorlatinib due to the risk of decreased vincristine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Vincristine is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and lorlatinib is a P-gp inducer.
vinCRIStine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vincristine and lorlatinib due to the risk of decreased vincristine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Vincristine is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and lorlatinib is a P-gp inducer.
Voclosporin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voclosporin with lorlatinib. Coadministration may decrease voclosporin exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Voclosporin is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with moderate CYP3A4 inducers is predicted to decrease voclosporin exposure by 70%.
Vonoprazan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vonoprazan and lorlatinib due to decreased plasma concentrations of vonoprazan, which may reduce its efficacy. Vonoprazan is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Vonoprazan exposures are predicted to be 50% lower when coadministered with a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vonoprazan and lorlatinib due to decreased plasma concentrations of vonoprazan, which may reduce its efficacy. Vonoprazan is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Vonoprazan exposures are predicted to be 50% lower when coadministered with a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lorlatinib with clarithromycin due to increased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions of lorlatinib; plasma concentrations of clarithromycin may also decrease. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of lorlatinib from 100 mg to 75 mg once daily, or from 75 mg to 50 mg once daily. If clarithromycin is discontinued, resume the original dose of lorlatinib after 3 plasma half-lives of clarithromycin. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Clarithromycin is a CYP3A4 substrate and strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased lorlatinib exposure by 42%. Inducers of CYP3A enzymes will decrease plasma concentrations of clarithromycin while increasing those of 14-OH-clarithromycin. Since the microbiological activities of clarithromycin and 14-OH-clarithromycin are different for different bacteria, the intended therapeutic effect could be impaired during concomitant administration of clarithromycin and enzyme inducers. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vonoprazan and lorlatinib due to decreased plasma concentrations of vonoprazan, which may reduce its efficacy. Vonoprazan is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Vonoprazan exposures are predicted to be 50% lower when coadministered with a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Voriconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lorlatinib with voriconazole due to increased plasma concentrations of lorlatinib, which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions; plasma concentrations of voriconazole may also be decreased. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of lorlatinib from 100 mg to 75 mg once daily, or from 75 mg to 50 mg once daily. If voriconazole is discontinued, resume the original dose of lorlatinib after 3 half-lives of voriconazole. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and moderate inducer. Voriconazole is a CYP3A substrate and strong inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased lorlatinib exposure by 42%.
Voxelotor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voxelotor and lorlatinib as concurrent use may decrease voxelotor exposure and lead to reduced efficacy. If coadministration is unavoidable, increase voxelotor dosage to 2,000 mg PO once daily in patients 12 years and older. In patients 4 to 11 years old, weight-based dosage adjustments are recommended; consult product labeling for specific recommendations. Voxelotor is a substrate of CYP3A; lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of voxelotor with a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease voxelotor exposure by up to 24%.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Closely monitor the INR if coadministration of warfarin with lorlatinib is necessary as concurrent use may decrease the exposure of warfarin leading to reduced efficacy. Lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer and the R-enantiomer of warfarin is a CYP3A4 substrate. The S-enantiomer of warfarin exhibits 2 to 5 times more anticoagulant activity than the R-enantiomer, but the R-enantiomer generally has a slower clearance.
Zanubrutinib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of zanubrutinib and lorlatinib due to the risk of decreased zanubrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, increase the zanubrutinib dose to 320 mg twice daily and monitor response. Resume the previous dose of zanubrutinib if lorlatinib is discontinued. Zanubrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased zanubrutinib exposure by 44%.
Zidesamtinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and lorlatinib. Concurrent use may decrease zidesamtinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Ziftomenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and lorlatinib. Concurrent use may decrease ziftomenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is estimated to reduce ziftomenib overall exposure by 70%.
Zoliflodacin: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of zoliflodacin and lorlatinib is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased zoliflodacin exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zoliflodacin is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce zoliflodacin overall exposure by 41%.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatotoxicity, hypoalbuminemia
    General Information
    Severe hepatotoxicity occurred in 10 of 12 healthy subjects receiving a single dose of lorlatinib with multiple daily doses of rifampin, a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Grade 4 transaminase elevations occurred in 50% of patients, grade 3 in 33%, and grade 2 in 8% of patients. Elevated hepatic enzymes occurred within 3 doses of lorlatinib administration and returned to normal limits after a median of 15 days (range, 7 to 34 days). A possible mechanism for hepatotoxicity is through activation of the pregnane X receptor (PXR) by both lorlatinib and rifampin, which are both PXR agonists. Increased AST (37% to 48%; grade 3 or 4, 2% to 2.1%), hypoalbuminemia (33% to 36%; grade 3 or 4, 0.7% to 1%), increased ALT (28% to 44%; grade 3 or 4, 2.1% to 2.7%), and increased alkaline phosphatase (23% to 24%; grade 3 or 4, 1% or less) were also reported in NSCLC patients treated with lorlatinib in 2 clinical trials (n = 444), independent of drug interactions; increased GGT occurred in 52% (grade 3 or 4, 6%) of patients in one o these trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hepatotoxicity
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hypoalbuminemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    neurotoxicity, seizures
    General Information
    A broad spectrum of central nervous system (CNS) effects (neurotoxicity) has been reported in patients treated with lorlatinib, including seizure disorder, changes in cognitive function, mood disorders, speech disorders (11%; grade 3 or 4, 0.6%), mental status changes (1.3%; grade 3 or 4, 1.1%), and sleep disorders. Overall, CNS effects occurred in 52% of patients treated with lorlatinib 100 mg once daily in 2 clinical trials (n = 476). Seizures occurred in 1.9% of patients treated with lorlatinib 100 mg once daily in 2 clinical trials (n = 476), sometimes in conjunction with other neurologic findings. An interruption of therapy followed by a dose reduction or a discontinuation of therapy is necessary, depending on severity, if cognitive effects or seizures occur. The median time to onset of any CNS effect was 1.4 months.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      neurotoxicity
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      seizures
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    carpal tunnel syndrome, dysesthesia, formication, hypoesthesia, paresthesias, peripheral neuropathy, weakness
    General Information
    Peripheral neuropathy occurred in 34% to 47% (grade 3 or 4, 2% to 2.7%) of NSCLC patients treated with lorlatinib in 2 clinical trials (n = 444), including burning sensation, carpal tunnel syndrome, dysesthesia, formication, gait disturbance, hypoesthesia, muscular weakness, neuralgia, peripheral neuropathy, neurotoxicity, paresthesias, peripheral sensory neuropathy, and sensory disturbance.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      carpal tunnel syndrome
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      dysesthesia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      formication
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hypoesthesia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      paresthesias
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral neuropathy
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      weakness
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    amnesia, confusion, dementia, hyperactivity, impaired cognition, memory impairment
    General Information
    Cognitive effects, or impaired cognition, including amnesia, dementia, attention disturbance, memory impairment, mental impairment, attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder, confusion, delirium, disorientation, and reading disorder, occurred in 28% (grade 3 or 4, 2.9%) of patients treated with lorlatinib 100 mg once daily in 2 clinical trials (n = 476). An interruption of therapy followed by a dose reduction or a discontinuation of therapy is necessary, depending on severity, if cognitive effects occur. Mental status changes were also reported in 2.1% (grade 3 or 4, 1.8%) of NSCLC patients treated with lorlatinib in a multicohort, multicenter, dose-finding and activity-estimating study.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      amnesia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      confusion
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      dementia
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hyperactivity
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      impaired cognition
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      memory impairment
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    agitation, anxiety, depression, emotional lability, euphoria, irritability, mania, psychosis, suicidal ideation
    General Information
    Psychiatric mood effects occurred in 21% (grade 3 or 4, 1.7%) of patients treated with lorlatinib 100 mg once daily in 2 clinical trials (n = 476), including affective disorder, emotional lability, aggression, agitation, anger, anxiety, bipolar I disorder, depression, euphoria, irritability, mania, altered mood, mood swings, personality change, stress, and suicidal ideation. Psychotic effects or psychosis occurred in 7% (grade 3 or 4, 0.6%) of patients. An interruption of therapy followed by a dose reduction or a discontinuation of therapy is necessary, depending on severity, if mood effects occur.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      agitation
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      anxiety
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      depression
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      emotional lability
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      euphoria
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      irritability
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      mania
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      suicidal ideation
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      psychosis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    aphasia, dysarthria
    General Information
    Speech disorders, including aphasia, dysarthria, and slow speech, were reported in 14% (severe, 0.3%) of all patients (n = 332) and in 12% (grade 3 or 4, 0.3%) of patients with advanced NSCLC treated with lorlatinib in a multicohort, multicenter, dose-finding, activity-estimating study (n = 295).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      aphasia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      dysarthria
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    abnormal dreams, insomnia, nightmares, somnambulism
    General Information
    Sleep disorders occurred in 12% (grade 3 or 4, 1.3% or less) of patients treated with lorlatinib in 2 clinical trials (n = 476), including abnormal dreams, insomnia, nightmares, sleep talking, and somnambulism. An interruption of therapy followed by a dose reduction or a discontinuation of therapy is necessary, depending on severity, if sleep disorders occur.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abnormal dreams
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      nightmares
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      somnambulism
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    hypercholesterolemia, hypertriglyceridemia
    General Information
    Hypercholesterolemia occurred in 78% (Grade 3 or 4, 18%) and hypertriglyceridemia in 73% (Grade 3 or 4, 19%) of patients treated with lorlatinib in 2 clinical trials (n = 476); the median time to onset was 15 days. Initiate or increase the dose of lipid-lowering agents as clinically appropriate in patients with hyperlipidemia; an interruption of therapy followed by a dose reduction or a discontinuation of therapy may be necessary, depending on the severity.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypercholesterolemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypertriglyceridemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    AV block, PR prolongation
    General Information
    PR prolongation and AV block can occur in patients receiving treatment with lorlatinib. Monitor ECGs at baseline and during treatment. An interruption of therapy and possible dose reduction is necessary in patients who require pacemaker placement; permanently discontinue lorlatinib for recurrence of AV block or PR prolongation in patients without a pacemaker. AV block occurred in 1.9% of patients who received 100 mg of lorlatinib once daily in 2 clinical trials and had a baseline ECG; grade 3 AV block requiring pacemaker placement occurred in 0.2% of patients. Among lorlatinib-treated patients (n = 295) with a PR interval less than 200 msec at baseline, 14% had PR prolongation after starting lorlatinib therapy in a multicohort, multicenter, dose-finding, activity-estimating study; the mean change from baseline for the PR interval was 16.4 msec. Prolongation of the PR interval was concentration-dependent. No large mean increases from baseline (greater than 20 msec) in the QTcF interval were detected.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      AV block
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      PR prolongation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    chest pain (unspecified), myocardial infarction
    General Information
    Chest pain (unspecified) occurred in 11% (grade 3 or 4, 1.3%) of patients treated with lorlatinib in a randomized clinical trial (n = 149). Fatal myocardial infarction occurred in 0.7% of patients with advanced NSCLC who received lorlatinib in a multicohort, multicenter, dose-finding, activity-estimating study (n = 295).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      myocardial infarction
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      chest pain (unspecified)
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    cough, dyspnea, pneumonitis
    General Information
    Severe or life-threatening pulmonary adverse reactions consistent with interstitial lung disease (ILD)/pneumonitis occurred in 1.9% (grade 3 or 4, 0.6%) of patients treated with lorlatinib in 2 clinical trials (n = 476). Any worsening respiratory symptoms indicative of ILD/pneumonitis should be promptly investigated; an interruption or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary. Dyspnea occurred in 20% to 27% (grade 3 or 4, 2.7% to 5.4%) and cough in 16% to 18% of lorlatinib-treated patients in these trials; respiratory failure occurred in 1.4% to 2.7% of patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pneumonitis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    blurred vision, diplopia, photophobia, photopsia, visual impairment
    General Information
    Visual impairment, including blindness, diplopia, photophobia, photopsia, blurred vision, reduced visual acuity, and vitreous floaters, occurred in 15% to 18% (grade 3 or 4, 0.3% or less) of patients with NSCLC treated with lorlatinib in 2 clinical trials (n = 444).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      blurred vision
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      diplopia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      photophobia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      photopsia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      visual impairment
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    edema, peripheral edema, pulmonary edema
    General Information
    Edema, including peripheral edema, eyelid edema, face edema, generalized edema, localized edema, periorbital edema, peripheral swelling, and swelling, occurred in 56% to 57% (grade 3 or 4, 3.1% to 4%) of patients treated with lorlatinib in 2 clinical trials (n = 444). One death (0.3%) due to acute pulmonary edema occurred in lorlatinib-treated NSCLC patients in a multicohort, multicenter, dose-finding, activity-estimating study (n = 295).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      edema
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      pulmonary edema
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    dizziness, headache
    General Information
    Headache occurred in 17% to 18% (grade 3 or 4, 0.7% or less) and dizziness in 11% to 16% (grade 3 or 4, 0.7% or less) of NSCLC patients treated with lorlatinib in 2 clinical trials (n = 444).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    constipation, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting
    General Information
    Gastrointestinal adverse reactions, including diarrhea (21% to 22%; grade 3 or 4, 0.7% to 1.3%), nausea (15% to 18%; grade 3 or 4, 0.7%), constipation (15% to 17%), and vomiting (12% to 13%; grade 3 or 4, 0.7% to 1%), have been reported in NSCLC patients treated with lorlatinib in 2 clinical trials (n = 444).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    arthralgia, back pain, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia
    General Information
    Musculoskeletal adverse reactions, including arthralgia (19% to 23%; grade 3 or 4, 0.7%), myalgia (including musculoskeletal pain) (15% to 17%; grade 3 or 4, 0.7% or less), back pain (13% to 15%; grade 3 or 4, 0.7%), and pain in extremities (13% to 17%; grade 3 or 4, 0.3% or less), were reported in patients with advanced NSCLC treated with lorlatinib in 2 clinical trials (n = 444). Increased CPK occurred in 39% (grade 3 or 4, 2%) of lorlatinib-treated NSCLC patients in one of these trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      back pain
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      musculoskeletal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      myalgia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    asthenia, fatigue
    General Information
    Fatigue (including asthenia) was reported in 19% to 26% (grade 3 or 4, 0.3% to 1.3%) of NSCLC patients treated with lorlatinib in 2 clinical trials (n = 444).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    weight gain
    General Information
    Weight gain occurred in 38% (grade 3 or 4, 17%) of NSCLC patients treated with lorlatinib in a randomized clinical trial (n = 149). The incidence was slightly lower (24%; grade 3 or 4, 4.4%) in lorlatinib-treated NSCLC patients in a multicohort, multicenter, dose-finding, activity-estimating study (n = 295).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      weight gain
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    fever, infection
    General Information
    Fever was reported in 12% to 17% (grade 3 or 4, 0.7% to 1.3%), upper respiratory tract infection in 11% to 12% (grade 3 or 4, 0.7% or less), and pneumonia in 3.4% to 7.4% (grade 3 or 4, 2% or less; grade 5, 0.7% or less) of patients with advanced NSCLC treated with lorlatinib in 2 randomized clinical trials. Bronchitis occurred in 6.7% (grade 3 or 4, 2%) of lorlatinib-treated NSCLC patients in a randomized clinical trial (n = 149).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    acneiform rash, maculopapular rash, rash
    General Information
    Rash, including acneiform rash, maculopapular rash, and pruritic rash, was reported in 11% to 14% (grade 3 or 4, 0.3% or less) of patients with advanced NSCLC treated with lorlatinib in 2 clinical trials (n = 444).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      acneiform rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      maculopapular rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anemia, lymphopenia, thrombocytopenia
    General Information
    Hematologic adverse reactions including anemia (48% to 52%; grade 3 or 4, 2% to 4.8%), thrombocytopenia (23%; grade 3 or 4, 0.3% or less), and lymphopenia (22% to 23%; grade 3 or 4, 2.7% to 3.4%) were reported in patients with advanced NSCLC treated with lorlatinib in 2 clinical trials (n = 444).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      lymphopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hyperamylasemia
    General Information
    Hyperamylasemia (20% to 22%; grade 3 or 4, 1.4% to 3.9%) and increased lipase (24% to 28%; grade 3 or 4, 7% to 10%) were reported in patients with advanced NSCLC treated with lorlatinib in 2 clinical trials (n = 444).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperamylasemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hyperglycemia, hyperkalemia, hypomagnesemia, hypophosphatemia
    General Information
    Hyperglycemia occurred in 9% (grade 3 or 4, 3.2%) of patients treated with lorlatinib in clinical trials; the median time to onset was 4.8 months. Monitor fasting blood glucose prior to initiation of therapy and periodically thereafter. An interruption of therapy followed by a dose reduction is necessary for grade 3 or higher hyperglycemia; lorlatinib should be discontinued if blood glucose cannot be adequately controlled with optimal medical management. Hyperkalemia occurred in 21% (grade 3 or 4, 1.3%) and increased creatinine in 81% (grade 3 or 4, 0.7%) of patients with advanced NSCLC who received lorlatinib in a randomized clinical trial. Electrolyte abnormalities reported in lorlatinib-treated patients in a multicohort, dose-finding study included hyperglycemia (52%; grade 3 or 4, 5%), hypophosphatemia (21%; grade 3 or 4, 4.8%), hyperkalemia (21%; grade 3 or 4, 1%), and hypomagnesemia (21%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperglycemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperkalemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypomagnesemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypophosphatemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    thromboembolism
    General Information
    Fatal embolism (thromboembolism) and peripheral artery occlusion each occurred in 0.3% of patients with advanced NSCLC treated with lorlatinib in a multicohort, multicenter, dose-finding, activity-estimating study (n = 295).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      thromboembolism
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    hypertension
    General Information
    Hypertension occurred in 13% (grade 3 or 4, 6%) of patients treated with lorlatinib in 2 clinical trials (n = 476); the median time to onset was 6.4 months. Control blood pressure prior to initiation of therapy and during treatment. An interruption of therapy followed by a dose reduction or a discontinuation of therapy is necessary for grade 3 or higher hypertension, depending on severity.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    prolonged bleeding time
    General Information
    Prolonged bleeding time (activated PTT) occurred in 25% of patients with advanced NSCLC treated with lorlatinib in a randomized clinical trial (n = 138).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      prolonged bleeding time
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    infertility
    General Information
    Based on animal data, lorlatinib may result in transient male infertility.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infertility
      Severity
      Moderate

Description
  Text
  Lorlatinib is an oral kinase inhibitor approved for the treatment of anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK)-positive metastatic non-small cell lung cancer. It is also active against ROS1 and a variety of other chromosomal rearrangements, including mutant forms of ALK detected in tumors at the time of disease progression on crizotinib and other ALK inhibitors. It carries a risk of serious hepatotoxicity when administered with CYP3A inducers, and is contraindicated for use with strong CYP3A inducers. Hyperlipidemia is common while on therapy; a wide variety of central nervous system effects have also been reported.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Lorlatinib is a kinase inhibitor with in vitro activity against anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) and ROS1 as well as TYK1, FER, FPS, TRKA, TRKB, TRKC, FAK, FAK2, and ACK. It demonstrated in vitro activity against multiple mutant forms of the ALK enzyme, including some mutations detected in tumors at the time of disease progression on crizotinib and other ALK inhibitors. Administration of lorlatinib resulted in antitumor activity in mice implanted with tumors harboring EML4 fusions with either ALK variant 1 or ALK mutations, including the G1202R and I1171T mutations detected in tumors at the time of disease progression on ALK inhibitors; it also demonstrated anti-tumor activity and prolonged survival in mice implanted intracranially with EML4-ALK-driven tumor cell lines. The overall antitumor activity of lorlatinib in in vivo models was dose-dependent and correlated with inhibition of ALK phosphorylation.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Steady-state lorlatinib maximum plasma concentration (Cmax) increases proportionally and AUC increases slightly less than proportionally over the dose range of 10 mg to 200 mg PO once daily (0.1 to 2 times the recommended dose). At the recommended dose, the mean Cmax was 577 ng/mL (42%) and the AUC was 5,650 ng x h/mL (39%) in patients with cancer. The median time to Cmax (Tmax) was 1.2 hours (range, 0.5 to 4 hours) following a single oral 100-mg dose and 2 hours (range, 0.5 to 23 hours) at steady-state. The mean absolute bioavailability (F) is 81% (90% CI, 76% to 86%) after oral administration compared to intravenous administration.
 
Administration with a high-fat, high-calorie meal (approximately 1,000 calories with 150 calories from protein, 250 calories from carbohydrate, and 500 to 600 calories from fat) had no clinically meaningful effect on lorlatinib pharmacokinetics. Concomitant administration with a proton pump inhibitor did not have a clinically meaningful effect on lorlatinib pharmacokinetics.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    The AUC of lorlatinib increased 1.1-fold in non-cancer subjects with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class B) and 1.8-fold in non-cancer subjects with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C) following administration of a single oral 100 mg dose.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in lorlatinib pharmacokinetics were observed based on mild to moderate renal impairment (CrCl 30 to 89 mL/min). The AUC of lorlatinib increased by 1.4-fold in subjects with severe renal impairment (CrCl 15 to 29 mL/min) after a single 100-mg oral dose. The pharmacokinetics of lorlatinib have not been studied in patients with end-stage renal-disease requiring hemodialysis.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in lorlatinib pharmacokinetics were observed based on age (19 to 85 years).
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in lorlatinib pharmacokinetics were observed based on sex.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in lorlatinib pharmacokinetics were observed based on race/ethnicity (52% White, 8% Black, 27% Asian).
    Name
    Obesity
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in lorlatinib pharmacokinetics were observed based on body weight (32 to 156 kg).
    Name
    Other
    Description
    Phenotypes
Metabolizer phenotype for CYP2C19 and CYP3A5 do not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of lorlatinib.
 
Exposure-Response Relationships
Exposure-response relationships for grade 3 or 4 hypercholesterolemia, and for any grade 3 or 4 adverse reaction, were observed at steady-state exposures at the recommended dose. A higher probability of the occurrence of adverse reactions occurs with increasing lorlatinib exposure.
  Text
  Lorlatinib is administered orally. It is 66% bound to plasma proteins. The blood-to-plasma ratio was 0.99. The mean plasma half-life of lorlatinib was 24 hours (40%) after a single oral 100-mg dose. The mean oral clearance was 11 liters/hour (35%) following a single dose and increased to 18 liters/hour (39%) at steady-state, indicating autoinduction. After administration of a single oral 100-mg dose of radiolabeled lorlatinib, 48% of radioactivity was recovered in urine (less than 1% as unchanged drug), and 41% in feces (approximately 9% as unchanged drug).
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A4, UGT1A4, pregnane X receptor (PXR)
In vitro, lorlatinib is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and UGT1A4, with minor contribution from CYP2C8, CYP2C19, CYP3A5, and UGT1A3. In plasma, a benzoic acid metabolite (M8) of lorlatinib resulting from the oxidative cleavage of the amide and aromatic ether bonds of lorlatinib accounted for 21% of the circulating radioactivity in a human mass balance study. The oxidative cleavage metabolite, M8, is pharmacologically inactive. In vitro, lorlatinib is a time-dependent inhibitor as well as an inducer of CYP3A that also activates PXR; the net effect in vivo is CYP3A induction. Lorlatinib also induces CYP2B6 and activates the human constitutive androstane receptor (CAR). In vitro, lorlatinib inhibits P-gp, OCT1, OAT3, MATE1, and BCRP.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
Emetic Risk
Minimal/Low
Administer prn antiemetics as necessary.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Lorlatinib may be taken with or without food.
Have the patient swallow the tablet whole. Do not crush, chew, or split tablets. Do not administer if tablets are broken, cracked, or otherwise not intact.
Administer lorlatinib at the same time each day. If a dose is missed, it can be given up to 4 hours before the next dose. Do not give 2 doses at the same time to make up for a missed dose.
Do not give an additional dose if vomiting occurs after lorlatinib administration. Continue with the next scheduled dose.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    100 mg PO once daily.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    100 mg PO once daily.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy not established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy not established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy not established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy not established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Mild (total bilirubin less than or equal to the upper limit of normal [ULN] with AST greater than ULN; or total bilirubin greater than 1 to 1.5 times ULN with any AST) to moderate (Child Pugh class B) hepatic impairment: No dosage adjustment is necessary.
Severe hepatic impairment (Child Pugh class C): Reduce the dose of lorlatinib to 50 mg PO once daily.
  Renal Impairment
  Mild or moderate renal impairment (CrCL 30 to 89 mL/min): No dosage adjustment necessary.
Severe renal impairment (CrCL 15 to 29 mL/min): Reduce the dose of lorlatinib to 75 mg PO once daily.
End-stage renal disease requiring hemodialysis: The recommended dose of lorlatinib has not been established.
