=== Sulopenem Etzadroxil/Probenecid (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5569)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Sulopenem etzadroxil; probenecid is an oral combination of a thiopenem antibacterial and a renal tubular transport inhibitor indicated for the treatment of uncomplicated urinary tract infections in adult women who have limited or no alternative oral antibacterial treatment options.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 1,000 mg/day sulopenem etzadroxil and 1,000 mg/day probenecid PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): confusion, dizziness, drowsiness, dysgeusia, dystonic reaction, headache, migraine, paresthesias, syncope, vertigo, flushing, hypertension, sinus tachycardia, eructation, gastroesophageal reflux, stool discoloration, elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatic necrosis, hepatomegaly, colic, costovertebral pain, hematuria, increased urinary frequency, nephrotic syndrome, uric acid nephrolithiasis, uric acid nephropathy, c. difficile-associated diarrhea, candidiasis, infection, pseudomembranous colitis

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Sulopenem etzadroxil; probenecid is contraindicated in individuals with known uric acid nephrolithiasis (kidney stones). Institute appropriate measures, such as increased fluid intake and alkalization of the urine, to reduce the risk of uric acid kidney stone development when using sulopenem...

Brand Names
  - Orlynvah

Dosage Forms
  - Orlynvah 500mg-500mg Tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        500 mg sulopenem etzadroxil and 500 mg probenecid PO twice daily for 5 days.
    Heading
    For the treatment of uncomplicated urinary tract infection with limited or no alternative oral antibacterial treatment options

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    gout, uric acid nephrolithiasis
    General Information
    Sulopenem etzadroxil; probenecid is contraindicated in individuals with known uric acid nephrolithiasis (kidney stones). Institute appropriate measures, such as increased fluid intake and alkalization of the urine, to reduce the risk of uric acid kidney stone development when using sulopenem etzadroxil; probenecid in individuals with a history of gout. Ensure appropriate gout therapy is used. Sulopenem etzadroxil; probenecid may cause exacerbation of gout.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Sulopenem etzadroxil; probenecid is also contraindicated in individuals with a history of hypersensitivity to other beta-lactam antibiotics.
    Headline
    renal failure
    General Information
    Sulopenem etzadroxil; probenecid is not recommended for use in individuals with renal failure (i.e., CrCl less than 15 mL/minute) or those receiving dialysis. The pharmacokinetics of sulopenem have not been studied in these populations.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no clinical data on the use of sulopenem etzadroxil during pregnancy to assess the risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. In pregnant mice, maternal toxicity and an increased incidence of cleft palate in the fetus were observed at plasma exposures approximately 23 times higher than those achieved with the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of 1,000 mg/day. In rats and rabbits, maternal toxicity and reduced fetal body weights occurred at plasma exposures approximately 2 to 6 times and 0.1 to 0.2 times the clinical exposure at the MRHD, respectively. Extensive published data over several decades have not identified an increased risk of miscarriage, major birth defects, or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes with the use of probenecid during pregnancy. Probenecid crosses the placenta and has been detected in cord blood.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use sulopenem etzadroxil; probenecid with caution during breast-feeding. Data on the presence of sulopenem etzadroxil or its metabolite in human milk, as well as their effects on the breastfed child and milk production, are lacking. Studies in lactating rats have detected the active metabolite, sulopenem, in milk after oral dosing. Probenecid has been identified in human milk based on case reports, with no reported adverse effects in breastfed children. Information regarding probenecid's impact on milk production is unavailable. When considering treatment, weigh the developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding against the clinical need for sulopenem etzadroxil; probenecid and any potential risks to the breastfed child from the medications or the underlying maternal health condition.
    Headline
    increased risk for tumor lysis syndrome
    General Information
    Use sulopenem etzadroxil; probenecid with caution individuals with an increased risk for tumor lysis syndrome (TLS), and take appropriate preventative measures to reduce the risk. The probenecid component may increase the risk of uric acid nephropathy in individuals at risk for TLS.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no clinical data on the use of sulopenem etzadroxil during pregnancy to assess the risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. In pregnant mice, maternal toxicity and an increased incidence of cleft palate in the fetus were observed at plasma exposures approximately 23 times higher than those achieved with the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of 1,000 mg/day. In rats and rabbits, maternal toxicity and reduced fetal body weights occurred at plasma exposures approximately 2 to 6 times and 0.1 to 0.2 times the clinical exposure at the MRHD, respectively. Extensive published data over several decades have not identified an increased risk of miscarriage, major birth defects, or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes with the use of probenecid during pregnancy. Probenecid crosses the placenta and has been detected in cord blood.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use sulopenem etzadroxil; probenecid with caution during breast-feeding. Data on the presence of sulopenem etzadroxil or its metabolite in human milk, as well as their effects on the breastfed child and milk production, are lacking. Studies in lactating rats have detected the active metabolite, sulopenem, in milk after oral dosing. Probenecid has been identified in human milk based on case reports, with no reported adverse effects in breastfed children. Information regarding probenecid's impact on milk production is unavailable. When considering treatment, weigh the developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding against the clinical need for sulopenem etzadroxil; probenecid and any potential risks to the breastfed child from the medications or the underlying maternal health condition.

Interactions
Abacavir; lamiVUDine, 3TC; Zidovudine, ZDV: (Major) Concomitant use of probenecid with zidovudine, ZDV may produce substantially higher serum concentrations of zidovudine.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of probenecid and salicylates is contraindicated. The uricosuric actions of probenecid are inhibited by salicylates. When probenecid is used to treat hyperuricemia or gout, do not administer with salicylates.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of probenecid and salicylates is contraindicated. The uricosuric actions of probenecid are inhibited by salicylates. When probenecid is used to treat hyperuricemia or gout, do not administer with salicylates.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of probenecid and salicylates is contraindicated. The uricosuric actions of probenecid are inhibited by salicylates. When probenecid is used to treat hyperuricemia or gout, do not administer with salicylates.
Acetaminophen; Ibuprofen: (Major) Probenecid can decrease the renal clearance of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agents (NSAIDs). Reduction of the NSAID dose may be necessary when it is used together with probenecid.
Acyclovir: (Moderate) Probenecid decreases the renal tubular secretion of acyclovir and can increase serum and CSF concentrations of acyclovir, increasing the potential for toxicity. This interaction would appear to be more significant for parenteral acyclovir.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause hyperuricemia. Although this effect represents a pharmacodynamic interaction and not a pharmacokinetic one, dosage adjustments of probenecid may be necessary if these agents are administered concurrently to patients being treated with probenecid.
Allopurinol: (Minor) Uricosuric agents are likely to increase the excretion of the active metabolite of allopurinol, oxypurinol. Although uricosuric agents increase the renal excretion of oxypurinol, the antihyperuricemic effects of allopurinol may be additive when administered with either probenecid or sulfinpyrazone.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause hyperuricemia. Although this effect represents a pharmacodynamic interaction and not a pharmacokinetic one, dosage adjustments of probenecid may be necessary if these agents are administered concurrently to patients being treated with probenecid.
Aminosalicylate sodium, Aminosalicylic acid: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of probenecid and salicylates is contraindicated. The uricosuric actions of probenecid are inhibited by salicylates. When probenecid is used to treat hyperuricemia or gout, do not administer with salicylates.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Major) Probenecid can decrease the renal clearance of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agents (NSAIDs). Reduction of the NSAID dose may be necessary when it is used together with probenecid.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause hyperuricemia. Although this effect represents a pharmacodynamic interaction and not a pharmacokinetic one, dosage adjustments of probenecid may be necessary if these agents are administered concurrently to patients being treated with probenecid.
Amoxicillin: (Minor) Probenecid competitively inhibits renal tubular secretion and causes higher, prolonged serum levels of penicillins. In general, this pharmacokinetic interaction is not harmful and can be used therapeutically if needed.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Minor) Probenecid competitively inhibits renal tubular secretion and causes higher, prolonged serum levels of penicillins. In general, this pharmacokinetic interaction is not harmful and can be used therapeutically if needed.
Amoxicillin; Clavulanic Acid: (Minor) Probenecid competitively inhibits renal tubular secretion and causes higher, prolonged serum levels of penicillins. In general, this pharmacokinetic interaction is not harmful and can be used therapeutically if needed.
Ampicillin: (Minor) Probenecid competitively inhibits renal tubular secretion and causes higher, prolonged serum levels of penicillins. In general, this pharmacokinetic interaction is not harmful and can be used therapeutically if needed.
Ampicillin; Sulbactam: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in sulbactam-related adverse effects if concomitant use with probenecid is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sulbactam exposure. Sulbactam is an OAT1 substrate and probenecid is an OAT1 inhibitor. (Minor) Probenecid competitively inhibits renal tubular secretion and causes higher, prolonged serum levels of penicillins. In general, this pharmacokinetic interaction is not harmful and can be used therapeutically if needed.
Aspirin, ASA: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of probenecid and salicylates is contraindicated. The uricosuric actions of probenecid are inhibited by salicylates. When probenecid is used to treat hyperuricemia or gout, do not administer with salicylates.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of probenecid and salicylates is contraindicated. The uricosuric actions of probenecid are inhibited by salicylates. When probenecid is used to treat hyperuricemia or gout, do not administer with salicylates.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of probenecid and salicylates is contraindicated. The uricosuric actions of probenecid are inhibited by salicylates. When probenecid is used to treat hyperuricemia or gout, do not administer with salicylates.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of probenecid and salicylates is contraindicated. The uricosuric actions of probenecid are inhibited by salicylates. When probenecid is used to treat hyperuricemia or gout, do not administer with salicylates.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of probenecid and salicylates is contraindicated. The uricosuric actions of probenecid are inhibited by salicylates. When probenecid is used to treat hyperuricemia or gout, do not administer with salicylates.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of probenecid and salicylates is contraindicated. The uricosuric actions of probenecid are inhibited by salicylates. When probenecid is used to treat hyperuricemia or gout, do not administer with salicylates.
Aspirin, ASA; Dipyridamole: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of probenecid and salicylates is contraindicated. The uricosuric actions of probenecid are inhibited by salicylates. When probenecid is used to treat hyperuricemia or gout, do not administer with salicylates.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of probenecid and salicylates is contraindicated. The uricosuric actions of probenecid are inhibited by salicylates. When probenecid is used to treat hyperuricemia or gout, do not administer with salicylates.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of probenecid and salicylates is contraindicated. The uricosuric actions of probenecid are inhibited by salicylates. When probenecid is used to treat hyperuricemia or gout, do not administer with salicylates.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause hyperuricemia. Although this effect represents a pharmacodynamic interaction and not a pharmacokinetic one, dosage adjustments of probenecid may be necessary if these agents are administered concurrently to patients being treated with probenecid.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause hyperuricemia. Although this effect represents a pharmacodynamic interaction and not a pharmacokinetic one, dosage adjustments of probenecid may be necessary if these agents are administered concurrently to patients being treated with probenecid.
Aztreonam; Avibactam: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in avibactam-related adverse effects if concomitant use with probenecid is necessary. Concomitant use may increase avibactam exposure. Avibactam is an OAT1/3 substrate and probenecid is a OAT1/3 inhibitor.
Baricitinib: (Major) Reduce the recommended baricitinib dose by half in patients receiving concomitant therapy with probenecid. If the recommended dose is 4 mg daily, reduce to 2 mg daily. If the recommended dose is 2 mg daily, reduce to 1 mg daily. If the recommended dose is 1 mg daily, consider discontinuing probenecid. Coadministration of baricitinib and probenecid results in increased baricitinib exposure. In a drug interaction study, administration of probenecid increased baricitinib exposure by 2-fold. Baricitinib is an OAT3 substrate and probenecid is a strong OAT3 inhibitor.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause hyperuricemia. Although this effect represents a pharmacodynamic interaction and not a pharmacokinetic one, dosage adjustments of probenecid may be necessary if these agents are administered concurrently to patients being treated with probenecid.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of probenecid and salicylates is contraindicated. The uricosuric actions of probenecid are inhibited by salicylates. When probenecid is used to treat hyperuricemia or gout, do not administer with salicylates.
Bismuth Subsalicylate: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of probenecid and salicylates is contraindicated. The uricosuric actions of probenecid are inhibited by salicylates. When probenecid is used to treat hyperuricemia or gout, do not administer with salicylates.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of probenecid and salicylates is contraindicated. The uricosuric actions of probenecid are inhibited by salicylates. When probenecid is used to treat hyperuricemia or gout, do not administer with salicylates.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause hyperuricemia. Although this effect represents a pharmacodynamic interaction and not a pharmacokinetic one, dosage adjustments of probenecid may be necessary if these agents are administered concurrently to patients being treated with probenecid.
Bromocriptine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects and reduced efficacy of both medications if concomitant use of bromocriptine and probenecid is necessary. Both medications are highly protein-bound and concomitant use may increase the unbound fraction of drug in circulation increasing the risk for adverse effects or enhancing drug elimination and reducing overall drug exposure.
Bumetanide: (Moderate) Probenecid can interfere with the natriuresis and plasma renin activity increases caused by diuretics such as bumetanide. Bumetanide can in turn increase the levels of serum uric acid, antagonizing the effects of probenecid.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Major) Probenecid can decrease the renal clearance of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agents (NSAIDs). Reduction of the NSAID dose may be necessary when it is used together with probenecid.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of probenecid and salicylates is contraindicated. The uricosuric actions of probenecid are inhibited by salicylates. When probenecid is used to treat hyperuricemia or gout, do not administer with salicylates.
Caffeine; Sodium Benzoate: (Moderate) Renal excretion of phenylacetylglutamine and hippuric acid may be affected by probenecid through competitive inhibition. These competitive reactions could be significant, as the overall usefulness of sodium benzoate is due to the excretion of its metabolites. An increase in metabolite concentrations could contribute to failed treatment and worsening of the patient's clinical status. Use with caution.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause hyperuricemia. Although this effect represents a pharmacodynamic interaction and not a pharmacokinetic one, dosage adjustments of probenecid may be necessary if these agents are administered concurrently to patients being treated with probenecid.
Captopril: (Moderate) Probenecid decreases the renal tubular secretion of captopril, resulting in higher captopril serum concentrations. If probenecid is given to a patient stabilized on captopril, hypotension may occur. This interaction would appear to be of lesser significance if captopril is added after probenecid therapy is in place.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Probenecid decreases the renal tubular secretion of captopril, resulting in higher captopril serum concentrations. If probenecid is given to a patient stabilized on captopril, hypotension may occur. This interaction would appear to be of lesser significance if captopril is added after probenecid therapy is in place. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause hyperuricemia. Although this effect represents a pharmacodynamic interaction and not a pharmacokinetic one, dosage adjustments of probenecid may be necessary if these agents are administered concurrently to patients being treated with probenecid.
Carbacephems: (Minor) Renal tubular secretion of loracarbef is inhibited by probenecid, resulting in higher, approximately 80% increase in AUC, serum levels of loracarbef. The interaction also increases the normal half-life of loracarbef from 1 to 1.5 hours.
Carbidopa; Levodopa; Entacapone: (Moderate) Entacapone should be given cautiously with drugs known to interfere with biliary excretion, glucuronidation or intestinal beta-glucuronidation such as probenecid. Decreased biliary excretion of entacapone may occur if these agents are given concurrently.
Cefaclor: (Minor) Probenecid competitively inhibits renal tubular secretion of cefaclor, thereby causing higher serum concentrations and prolonged elimination of cefaclor.
Cefotaxime: (Minor) Probenecid competitively inhibits renal tubular secretion of cefotaxime, thereby causing higher, prolonged serum levels of the drug.
Cefpodoxime: (Minor) Renal excretion of cefpodoxime is inhibited by probenecid.
Cefprozil: (Minor) Probenecid competitively inhibits renal tubular secretion of cefprozil, causing higher, prolonged serum levels of the drug. In the oral treatment of pediatric osteomyelitis, probenecid is intentionally administered with cefprozil to achieve higher serum concentrations.
cefTAZidime; Avibactam: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in avibactam-related adverse effects if concomitant use with probenecid is necessary. Concomitant use may increase avibactam exposure. Avibactam is an OAT1/3 substrate and probenecid is a OAT1/3 inhibitor.
Ceftolozane; Tazobactam: (Minor) Probenecid may prolong serum concentrations of tazobactam when coadministered with ceftolozane; tazobactam. Probenecid has been shown to prolong the half-life of tazobactam by 71% when coadministered. The clinical significance of this interaction has not been established.
Celecoxib: (Major) Probenecid can decrease the renal clearance of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agents (NSAIDs). Reduction of the NSAID dose may be necessary when it is used together with probenecid.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Major) Probenecid can decrease the renal clearance of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agents (NSAIDs). Reduction of the NSAID dose may be necessary when it is used together with probenecid.
Cephalexin: (Minor) Probenecid competitively inhibits renal tubular secretion of cephalexin, causing higher, prolonged serum levels of the drug.
Chlorothiazide: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause hyperuricemia. Although this effect represents a pharmacodynamic interaction and not a pharmacokinetic one, dosage adjustments of probenecid may be necessary if these agents are administered concurrently to patients being treated with probenecid.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Probenecid can decrease the renal clearance of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agents (NSAIDs). Reduction of the NSAID dose may be necessary when it is used together with probenecid.
Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause hyperuricemia. Although this effect represents a pharmacodynamic interaction and not a pharmacokinetic one, dosage adjustments of probenecid may be necessary if these agents are administered concurrently to patients being treated with probenecid.
Choline Salicylate; Magnesium Salicylate: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of probenecid and salicylates is contraindicated. The uricosuric actions of probenecid are inhibited by salicylates. When probenecid is used to treat hyperuricemia or gout, do not administer with salicylates.
Cidofovir: (Minor) Probenecid impairs the tubular secretion of cidofovir. While cidofovir serum concentrations are higher as a result of the effects of probenecid, probenecid is recommended for use in combination with cidofovir to offset cidofovir-induced nephrotoxicity.
Ciprofloxacin: (Minor) Probenecid decreases renal secretion of ciprofloxacin by 50%, resulting in elevated ciprofloxacin serum concentrations and prolonging its half-life.
Clofarabine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine, a substrate of OAT1 and OAT3, and probenecid, an inhibitor of OAT1 and OAT3, may result in increased clofarabine levels. Therefore, monitor for signs of clofarabine toxicity such as gastrointestinal toxicity (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, mucosal inflammation), hematologic toxicity, and skin toxicity (e.g., hand and foot syndrome, rash, pruritus) in patients also receiving OAT1 and OAT3 inhibitors.
Dapsone: (Minor) Current evidence suggests that probenecid can inhibit the renal excretion of dapsone, resulting in elevated plasma concentrations. Dapsone toxicity as a result of this interaction has not been studied, so patients receiving these agents concurrently should be monitored for hemolytic anemia, methemoglobinemia, and/or peripheral neuropathy with muscle weakness. This interaction may, however, be beneficial in treating organisms that are resistant to dapsone.
Deferiprone: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of deferiprone and probenecid. Deferiprone is a UDP glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) 1A6 substrate, and probenecid inhibits this enzyme. The in vitro glucuronidation of deferiprone is reduced by 78% in the presence of phenylbutazone, another UGT1A6 inhibitor. Similar results may be seen when deferiprone and probenecid are administered concomitantly.
Dichlorphenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dichlorphenamide, including hypokalemia and hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis, if probenecid and dichlorphenamide are coadministered. Dichlorphenamide is a substrate for OAT1 and OAT3. Probenecid may increase exposure to dichlorphenamide through OAT1 and OAT3 inhibition. Measure potassium concentrations at baseline and periodically during dichlorphenamide treatment. If hypokalemia occurs or persists, consider reducing the dose or discontinuing dichlorphenamide therapy. Measure sodium bicarbonate concentrations at baseline and periodically during dichlorphenamide treatment. If metabolic acidosis occurs or persists, consider reducing the dose or discontinuing dichlorphenamide therapy.
Diclofenac: (Major) Probenecid can decrease the renal clearance of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agents (NSAIDs). Reduction of the NSAID dose may be necessary when it is used together with probenecid.
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Major) Probenecid can decrease the renal clearance of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agents (NSAIDs). Reduction of the NSAID dose may be necessary when it is used together with probenecid.
Dicloxacillin: (Minor) Probenecid competitively inhibits renal tubular secretion and causes higher, prolonged serum levels of penicillins. In general, this pharmacokinetic interaction is not harmful and can be used therapeutically if needed.
Diflunisal: (Major) Probenecid can affect the pharmacokinetics of diflunisal. In healthy males, probenecid inhibits both renal and biliary excretion of and slightly decreases the protein binding of diflunisal. It has been proposed that the decreased clearance of diflunisal may result in an increased concentration of the glucuronide metabolites. Diflunisal does have uricosuric effects; however, it is not known whether diflunisal affects the activity of probenicid. Reduction of the diflunisal dose may be necessary when it is used together with probenecid.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Major) Probenecid can decrease the renal clearance of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agents (NSAIDs). Reduction of the NSAID dose may be necessary when it is used together with probenecid.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Major) Substantial increases in the plasma concentration of naproxen anion have been observed following concomitant administration with probenecid. Plasma concentrations of naproxen can be increased by 50% and its half-life increased to 37 hours. The mechanism of this interaction may be through the inhibition of the formation of naproxen's glucuronide metabolite as well as inhibition of renal clearance.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Moderate) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent, such as probenecid; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent, such as probenecid; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent, such as probenecid; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Eluxadoline: (Minor) Systemic exposure (AUC) and maximum plasma concentration of eluxadoline are increased by 35% and 31%, respectively, when administered concurrently with probenecid. According to the manufacturer, the increase in exposure is not expected to be clinically meaningful; no dosage adjustments are required during coadministration with probenecid.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent, such as probenecid; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent, such as probenecid; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent, such as probenecid; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause hyperuricemia. Although this effect represents a pharmacodynamic interaction and not a pharmacokinetic one, dosage adjustments of probenecid may be necessary if these agents are administered concurrently to patients being treated with probenecid.
Entacapone: (Moderate) Entacapone should be given cautiously with drugs known to interfere with biliary excretion, glucuronidation or intestinal beta-glucuronidation such as probenecid. Decreased biliary excretion of entacapone may occur if these agents are given concurrently.
Ertapenem: (Minor) Probenecid inhibits the renal excretion of ertapenem by competing with them for active tubular secretion. In some instances, this effect is used therapeutically to increase availability of the antimicrobial agent. However, the elimination half-life of ertapenem is increased only from 4 to 4.8 hours. Concurrent administration of ertapenem with probenecid is not recommended.
Ethacrynic Acid: (Moderate) Probenecid has uricosuric actions. Ethacrynic acid can also cause hyperuricemia. Although this effect represents a pharmacodynamic interaction, dosage adjustments of probenecid may be necessary if ethacrynic acid is administered to patients being treated with probenecid.
Ethambutol: (Moderate) Probenecid has uricosuric actions. Ethambutol can also cause hyperuricemia. Although this effect represents a pharmacodynamic interaction, dosage adjustments of probenecid may be necessary if ethambutol is administered to patients being treated with probenecid.
Etodolac: (Major) Probenecid can decrease the renal clearance of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agents (NSAIDs). Reduction of the NSAID dose may be necessary when it is used together with probenecid.
Famciclovir: (Moderate) Probenecid undergoes both renal tubular secretion and renal tubular reabsorption. Concomitant administration of probenecid with famciclovir may impair clearance of the active metabolite, penciclovir. Probenecid should be avoided during therapy with famciclovir.
Fenoprofen: (Major) Probenecid can decrease the renal clearance of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agents (NSAIDs). Reduction of the NSAID dose may be necessary when it is used together with probenecid.
Fexinidazole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in sulopenem-related adverse effects (i.e., diarrhea, nausea) if concomitant use with fexinidazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sulopenem exposure. Sulopenem is an OAT3 substrate and fexinidazole is an OAT3 inhibitor.
Flurbiprofen: (Major) Probenecid can decrease the renal clearance of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agents (NSAIDs). Reduction of the NSAID dose may be necessary when it is used together with probenecid.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause hyperuricemia. Although this effect represents a pharmacodynamic interaction and not a pharmacokinetic one, dosage adjustments of probenecid may be necessary if these agents are administered concurrently to patients being treated with probenecid.
Furosemide: (Moderate) Probenecid can interfere with the natriuresis and plasma renin activity increases caused by diuretics such as furosemide. Furosemide can in turn increase the levels of serum uric acid, antagonizing the effects of probenecid.
Ganaxolone: (Moderate) Monitor for ganaxolone-related adverse effects if concomitant use with probenecid is necessary. For those on a stable maintenance dose of ganaxolone, consider a ganaxolone dosage reduction. Concomitant use may increase ganaxolone exposure. Ganaxolone is a UGT substrate and probenecid is a UGT inhibitor.
Ganciclovir: (Moderate) Ganciclovir should be used with probenecid with caution. Probenecid can inhibit renal tubular secretion of ganciclovir, possibly potentiating ganciclovir toxicity. Patients should be monitored for increased ganciclovir toxicity when taking probenecid with ganciclovir.
Gemfibrozil: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in sulopenem-related adverse effects (i.e., diarrhea, nausea) if concomitant use with gemfibrozil is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sulopenem exposure. Sulopenem is an OAT3 substrate and gemfibrozil is an OAT3 inhibitor.
Gemifloxacin: (Minor) Probenecid, 4.5 g total dose, reduced the mean renal clearance of a single 320-mg dose of gemifloxacin by approximately 50%, increased the AUC by 45%, increased the Cmax by 8%, and prolonged the mean half by 1.6 hours.
Glimepiride: (Moderate) Probenecid is highly protein bound, and the hypoglycemic effect of sulfonylureas made be potentiated if these drugs are coadministered.
glipiZIDE: (Moderate) Probenecid is highly protein bound, and the hypoglycemic effect of sulfonylureas made be potentiated if these drugs are coadministered.
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Probenecid is highly protein bound, and the hypoglycemic effect of sulfonylureas made be potentiated if these drugs are coadministered.
glyBURIDE: (Moderate) Probenecid is highly protein bound, and the hypoglycemic effect of sulfonylureas made be potentiated if these drugs are coadministered.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Probenecid is highly protein bound, and the hypoglycemic effect of sulfonylureas made be potentiated if these drugs are coadministered.
Glycerol Phenylbutyrate: (Moderate) Probenecid may inhibit renal excretion of glycerol phenylbutyrate metabolites, including phenylacetate (PAA) and phenylacetylglutamine (PAGN). PAA has been associated with neurotoxicity. If probenecid must be used in combination with glycerol phenylbutyrate, monitor the patient closely for signs and symptoms of neurotoxicity. In addition, because probenecid alters PAGN excretion, use caution when interpreting urinary PAGN concentrations for the purpose of dosage adjustments.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause hyperuricemia. Although this effect represents a pharmacodynamic interaction and not a pharmacokinetic one, dosage adjustments of probenecid may be necessary if these agents are administered concurrently to patients being treated with probenecid.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause hyperuricemia. Although this effect represents a pharmacodynamic interaction and not a pharmacokinetic one, dosage adjustments of probenecid may be necessary if these agents are administered concurrently to patients being treated with probenecid.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Major) Probenecid can decrease the renal clearance of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agents (NSAIDs). Reduction of the NSAID dose may be necessary when it is used together with probenecid.
Hydroxyurea: (Major) Hydroxyurea may raise the serum uric acid concentration, so dosage adjustment of uricosuric medications such as probenecid may be necessary.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of probenecid and salicylates is contraindicated. The uricosuric actions of probenecid are inhibited by salicylates. When probenecid is used to treat hyperuricemia or gout, do not administer with salicylates.
Ibuprofen: (Major) Probenecid can decrease the renal clearance of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agents (NSAIDs). Reduction of the NSAID dose may be necessary when it is used together with probenecid.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Major) Probenecid can decrease the renal clearance of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agents (NSAIDs). Reduction of the NSAID dose may be necessary when it is used together with probenecid.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Probenecid can decrease the renal clearance of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agents (NSAIDs). Reduction of the NSAID dose may be necessary when it is used together with probenecid.
Imipenem; Cilastatin: (Major) Concomitant use of imipenem and probenecid is not recommended. Probenecid competitively inhibits renal tubular secretion and causes increased serum concentrations of imipenem and prolonged half-life.
Imipenem; Cilastatin; Relebactam: (Major) Concomitant use of imipenem and probenecid is not recommended. Probenecid competitively inhibits renal tubular secretion and causes increased serum concentrations of imipenem and prolonged half-life.
Indomethacin: (Major) Probenecid reduces the clearance of indomethacin, and a lower dosage of indomethacin may be required to produce a therapeutic effect.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause hyperuricemia. Although this effect represents a pharmacodynamic interaction and not a pharmacokinetic one, dosage adjustments of probenecid may be necessary if these agents are administered concurrently to patients being treated with probenecid.
Ketoprofen: (Major) Concomitant administration of ketoprofen with probenecid can increase plasma concentrations of ketoprofen. Simultaneous use of these agents is not recommended.
Ketorolac: (Contraindicated) Simultaneous use of ketorolac and probenecid is contraindicated. Concomitant administration of ketorolac with probenecid can result in substantially increased plasma concentrations of ketorolac through decreased clearance. The elimination half-life of ketorolac is approximately doubled.
lamiVUDine, 3TC; Zidovudine, ZDV: (Major) Concomitant use of probenecid with zidovudine, ZDV may produce substantially higher serum concentrations of zidovudine.
lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent, such as probenecid; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Minor) Probenecid competitively inhibits renal tubular secretion and causes higher, prolonged serum levels of penicillins. In general, this pharmacokinetic interaction is not harmful and can be used therapeutically if needed.
Leflunomide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in sulopenem-related adverse effects (i.e., diarrhea, nausea) if concomitant use with leflunomide is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sulopenem exposure. Sulopenem is an OAT3 substrate and leflunomide is an OAT3 inhibitor.
levETIRAcetam: (Minor) The renal clearance of the major metabolite of levetiracetam, UCB L057, is decreased by 60 percent in the presence of probenecid. This is probably related to competitive inhibition of tubular secretion of UCB L057. The clinical significance of this is unknown.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause hyperuricemia. Although this effect represents a pharmacodynamic interaction and not a pharmacokinetic one, dosage adjustments of probenecid may be necessary if these agents are administered concurrently to patients being treated with probenecid.
LORazepam: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in lorazepam-related adverse reactions and consider reducing the dose of lorazepam if concomitant use of lorazepam and probenecid is necessary. Avoid lorazepam extended-release capsules and utilize lorazepam immediate-release dosage forms that can be easily titrated. Coadministration of lorazepam with probenecid may cause a more rapid onset or prolonged effect of lorazepam due to increased half-life and decreased total clearance. Lorazepam is an UGT substrate and probenecid is an UGT inhibitor.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause hyperuricemia. Although this effect represents a pharmacodynamic interaction and not a pharmacokinetic one, dosage adjustments of probenecid may be necessary if these agents are administered concurrently to patients being treated with probenecid.
Mafenide: (Minor) Probenecid may inhibit the renal transport of sulfonamides. Plasma concentrations of these agents may be increased.
Magnesium Salicylate: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of probenecid and salicylates is contraindicated. The uricosuric actions of probenecid are inhibited by salicylates. When probenecid is used to treat hyperuricemia or gout, do not administer with salicylates.
Maraviroc: (Moderate) Use caution and closely monitor for increased adverse effects during concurrent administration of maraviroc and probenecid as increased maraviroc concentrations may occur. Maraviroc is a substrate of multidrug resistance-associated protein (MRP2); probenecid is an inhibitor of MRP2. The effects of this transporter on the concentrations of maraviroc are unknown, although an increase in concentrations and thus, toxicity, are possible.
Mecamylamine: (Moderate) Probenecid has uricosuric actions. Mecamylamine can also cause hyperuricemia. Although this effect represents a pharmacodynamic interaction, dosage adjustments of probenecid may be necessary if mecamylamine is administered to patients being treated with probenecid.
Meclofenamate Sodium: (Major) Probenecid can decrease the renal clearance of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agents (NSAIDs). Reduction of the NSAID dose may be necessary when it is used together with probenecid.
Mefenamic Acid: (Major) Probenecid can decrease the renal clearance of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agents (NSAIDs). Reduction of the NSAID dose may be necessary when it is used together with probenecid.
Meloxicam: (Major) Probenecid can decrease the renal clearance of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agents (NSAIDs). Reduction of the NSAID dose may be necessary when it is used together with probenecid.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Major) Probenecid can decrease the renal clearance of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agents (NSAIDs). Reduction of the NSAID dose may be necessary when it is used together with probenecid.
Meropenem: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of meropenem and probenecid due to the risk for increased meropenem exposure which may increase the risk for meropenem-related adverse effects. Concurrent use has been observed to increase the mean systemic exposure and half-life of meropenem by 56% and 38%, respectively. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in sulopenem-related adverse effects (i.e., diarrhea, nausea) if concomitant use with meropenem is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sulopenem exposure. Sulopenem is an OAT3 substrate and meropenem is an OAT3 inhibitor.
Meropenem; Vaborbactam: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of meropenem and probenecid due to the risk for increased meropenem exposure which may increase the risk for meropenem-related adverse effects. Concurrent use has been observed to increase the mean systemic exposure and half-life of meropenem by 56% and 38%, respectively. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in sulopenem-related adverse effects (i.e., diarrhea, nausea) if concomitant use with meropenem is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sulopenem exposure. Sulopenem is an OAT3 substrate and meropenem is an OAT3 inhibitor.
Methenamine; Sodium Salicylate: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of probenecid and salicylates is contraindicated. The uricosuric actions of probenecid are inhibited by salicylates. When probenecid is used to treat hyperuricemia or gout, do not administer with salicylates.
Methotrexate: (Contraindicated) Probenecid inhibits renal elimination of methotrexate, which can cause increased plasma levels and toxicity of methotrexate. In addition, methotrexate can increase uric acid production. Probenecid has also been associated with decreased clearance of methotrexate from the CSF. Concomitant use of methotrexate and probenecid is not recommended because of the increased risk of uric acid neuropathy. If coadministration is necessary, patients receiving this combination should be closely monitored.
metOLazone: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause hyperuricemia. Although this effect represents a pharmacodynamic interaction and not a pharmacokinetic one, dosage adjustments of probenecid may be necessary if these agents are administered concurrently to patients being treated with probenecid.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause hyperuricemia. Although this effect represents a pharmacodynamic interaction and not a pharmacokinetic one, dosage adjustments of probenecid may be necessary if these agents are administered concurrently to patients being treated with probenecid.
Mycophenolate: (Minor) Probenecid is a known inhibitor of renal tubular secretion, and the inactive metabolite, MPAG undergoes tubular secretion. Increased MPAG concentrations can cause increased mycophenolic acid systemic exposure and thus, adverse effects. Patients receiving both drugs should be monitored carefully.
Nabumetone: (Major) The effects of probenecid on the elimination of nabumetone has not been studied, but probenecid decreases the elimination of other NSAIDs such as naproxen, potentially increasing the effectiveness and/or toxicity. Caution should be exercised when administering probenecid with nabumetone; nabumetone and naproxen are chemically similar, and probenecid has been shown to affect the pharmacokinetics of naproxen.
Nafcillin: (Minor) Probenecid competitively inhibits renal tubular secretion and causes higher, prolonged serum levels of penicillins. In general, this pharmacokinetic interaction is not harmful and can be used therapeutically if needed.
Naproxen: (Major) Substantial increases in the plasma concentration of naproxen anion have been observed following concomitant administration with probenecid. Plasma concentrations of naproxen can be increased by 50% and its half-life increased to 37 hours. The mechanism of this interaction may be through the inhibition of the formation of naproxen's glucuronide metabolite as well as inhibition of renal clearance.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Major) Substantial increases in the plasma concentration of naproxen anion have been observed following concomitant administration with probenecid. Plasma concentrations of naproxen can be increased by 50% and its half-life increased to 37 hours. The mechanism of this interaction may be through the inhibition of the formation of naproxen's glucuronide metabolite as well as inhibition of renal clearance.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Substantial increases in the plasma concentration of naproxen anion have been observed following concomitant administration with probenecid. Plasma concentrations of naproxen can be increased by 50% and its half-life increased to 37 hours. The mechanism of this interaction may be through the inhibition of the formation of naproxen's glucuronide metabolite as well as inhibition of renal clearance.
Nitrofurantoin: (Moderate) High doses of probenecid can inhibit the renal tubular secretion of nitrofurantoin, leading to a decrease in renal clearance. Nitrofurantoin serum concentrations can increase, elevating the risk of toxicity. Lower doses of nitrofurantoin should be used when probenecid is used.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause hyperuricemia. Although this effect represents a pharmacodynamic interaction and not a pharmacokinetic one, dosage adjustments of probenecid may be necessary if these agents are administered concurrently to patients being treated with probenecid.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause hyperuricemia. Although this effect represents a pharmacodynamic interaction and not a pharmacokinetic one, dosage adjustments of probenecid may be necessary if these agents are administered concurrently to patients being treated with probenecid.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Minor) Probenecid competitively inhibits renal tubular secretion and causes higher, prolonged serum levels of penicillins. In general, this pharmacokinetic interaction is not harmful and can be used therapeutically if needed.
Oseltamivir: (Minor) Coadministration of oseltamivir and probenecid results in a two-fold increase in exposure to oseltamivir carboxylate due to a decrease in active anionic tubular secretion in the kidney. However, due to the safety margin of oseltamivir carboxylate, no dosage adjustments are required when oseltamivir is given concomitantly with probenecid.
Oxacillin: (Minor) Probenecid competitively inhibits renal tubular secretion and causes higher, prolonged serum levels of penicillins. In general, this pharmacokinetic interaction is not harmful and can be used therapeutically if needed.
Oxaprozin: (Major) Probenecid can decrease the renal clearance of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agents. Reduction of the NSAID dose may be necessary when it is used together with probenecid.
Pegloticase: (Major) Oral urate-lowering medications, including allopurinol, febuxostat, probenecid, and sulfinpyrazone may potentially blunt the rise of serum uric acid levels in patients taking pegloticase. Since patients who have lost therapeutic response to pegloticase are at higher risk of developing anaphylaxis and infusion reactions, oral urate-lowering therapy should be discontinued prior to pegloticase initiation and withheld during the course of treatment.
Penicillin G Benzathine: (Minor) Probenecid competitively inhibits renal tubular secretion and causes higher, prolonged serum levels of penicillins. In general, this pharmacokinetic interaction is not harmful and can be used therapeutically if needed.
Penicillin G Benzathine; Penicillin G Procaine: (Minor) Probenecid competitively inhibits renal tubular secretion and causes higher, prolonged serum levels of penicillins. In general, this pharmacokinetic interaction is not harmful and can be used therapeutically if needed.
Penicillin G Procaine: (Minor) Probenecid competitively inhibits renal tubular secretion and causes higher, prolonged serum levels of penicillins. In general, this pharmacokinetic interaction is not harmful and can be used therapeutically if needed.
Penicillin G: (Minor) Probenecid competitively inhibits renal tubular secretion and causes higher, prolonged serum levels of penicillins. In general, this pharmacokinetic interaction is not harmful and can be used therapeutically if needed.
Penicillin V: (Minor) Probenecid competitively inhibits renal tubular secretion and causes higher, prolonged serum levels of penicillins. In general, this pharmacokinetic interaction is not harmful and can be used therapeutically if needed.
Penicillins: (Minor) Probenecid competitively inhibits renal tubular secretion and causes higher, prolonged serum levels of penicillins. In general, this pharmacokinetic interaction is not harmful and can be used therapeutically if needed.
Pexidartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of pexidartinib and probenecid due to the risk of increased pexidartinib exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the pexidartinib dosage as follows: 500 mg/day or 375 mg/day of pexidartinib, reduce to 125 mg twice daily; 250 mg/day of pexidartinib, reduce to 125 mg once daily. If probenecid is discontinued, increase the pexidartinib dose to the original dose after 3 plasma half-lives of probenecid. Pexidartinib is a UGT substrate; probenecid is a UGT inhibitor. Coadministration of probenecid increased pexidartinib exposure by 60%.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Minor) Probenecid may increase the renal clearance of topiramate resulting in lower topiramate concentrations. Although not evaluated in humans, animal studies using probenecid along with topiramate showed a significant increase in renal clearance of topiramate. This suggests that topiramate may undergo renal tubular reabsorption. Probenecid may block renal tubular reabsorption of topiramate, thus increasing the renal clearance of the drug.
Pioglitazone; Glimepiride: (Moderate) Probenecid is highly protein bound, and the hypoglycemic effect of sulfonylureas made be potentiated if these drugs are coadministered.
Piperacillin; Tazobactam: (Minor) Probenecid competitively inhibits renal tubular secretion and causes higher, prolonged serum levels of penicillins. In general, this pharmacokinetic interaction is not harmful and can be used therapeutically if needed. (Minor) Probenecid may prolong serum concentrations of tazobactam when coadministered with ceftolozane; tazobactam. Probenecid has been shown to prolong the half-life of tazobactam by 71% when coadministered. The clinical significance of this interaction has not been established.
Piroxicam: (Major) Probenecid can decrease the renal clearance of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agents (NSAIDs). Reduction of the NSAID dose may be necessary when it is used together with probenecid.
Pivmecillinam: (Minor) Probenecid competitively inhibits renal tubular secretion and causes higher, prolonged serum levels of penicillins. In general, this pharmacokinetic interaction is not harmful and can be used therapeutically if needed.
PRALAtrexate: (Major) Coadministration of increasing doses of probenecid, a uricosuric drug, and pralatrexate resulted in a delayed clearance of pralatrexate and a commensurate increase in systemic exposure of pralatrexate.
Pretomanid: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in sulopenem-related adverse effects (i.e., diarrhea, nausea) if concomitant use with pretomanid is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sulopenem exposure. Sulopenem is an OAT3 substrate and pretomanid is an OAT3 inhibitor.
Pyrazinamide, PZA: (Minor) Because pyrazinamide can increase serum uric acid levels and precipitate gouty attacks, the dosages of antigout agents, including probenecid, may need to be adjusted.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause hyperuricemia. Although this effect represents a pharmacodynamic interaction and not a pharmacokinetic one, dosage adjustments of probenecid may be necessary if these agents are administered concurrently to patients being treated with probenecid.
rifAMPin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of rifampin and probenecid may result in increased serum concentrations of rifampin. Monitor for increased rifampin toxicity during coadministration.
Salicylates: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of probenecid and salicylates is contraindicated. The uricosuric actions of probenecid are inhibited by salicylates. When probenecid is used to treat hyperuricemia or gout, do not administer with salicylates.
Salsalate: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of probenecid and salicylates is contraindicated. The uricosuric actions of probenecid are inhibited by salicylates. When probenecid is used to treat hyperuricemia or gout, do not administer with salicylates.
Seladelpar: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of seladelpar and probenecid due to the risk for increased seladelpar exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use has been observed to increase seladelpar overall exposure by 2-fold.
Silodosin: (Major) KMD-3213G, the primary metabolite of silodosin, is formed from direct conjugation of silodosin by UDP-glucuronosyltransferase 2B7 (UBT2B7). In theory, coadministration of silodosin with UBT2B7 inhibitors such as probenecid may increase silodosin plasma concentrations.
Sodium Benzoate; Sodium Phenylacetate: (Moderate) Renal excretion of phenylacetylglutamine and hippuric acid may be affected by probenecid through competitive inhibition. These competitive reactions could be significant, as the overall usefulness of sodium benzoate is due to the excretion of its metabolites. An increase in metabolite concentrations could contribute to failed treatment and worsening of the patient's clinical status. Use with caution.
Sodium Phenylbutyrate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of probenecid and sodium phenylbutyrate. Coadministration may increase the risk for potential for neurotoxicity. Probenecid may inhibit renal excretion of the metabolites of sodium phenylbutyrate, including phenylacetate and phenylacetylglutamine.
Sodium Phenylbutyrate; Taurursodiol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of probenecid and sodium phenylbutyrate. Coadministration may increase the risk for potential for neurotoxicity. Probenecid may inhibit renal excretion of the metabolites of sodium phenylbutyrate, including phenylacetate and phenylacetylglutamine. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in sulopenem-related adverse effects (i.e., diarrhea, nausea) if concomitant use with taurursodiol is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sulopenem exposure. Sulopenem is an OAT3 substrate and taurursodiol is an OAT3 inhibitor.
Sodium picosulfate; Magnesium oxide; Anhydrous citric acid: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause hyperuricemia. Although this effect represents a pharmacodynamic interaction and not a pharmacokinetic one, dosage adjustments of probenecid may be necessary if these agents are administered concurrently to patients being treated with probenecid.
Sulbactam; Durlobactam: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in sulbactam-related adverse effects if concomitant use with probenecid is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sulbactam exposure. Sulbactam is an OAT1 substrate and probenecid is an OAT1 inhibitor.
sulfADIAZINE: (Minor) Probenecid may inhibit the renal transport of sulfonamides. Plasma concentrations of these agents may be increased.
Sulfamethoxazole; Trimethoprim, SMX-TMP, Cotrimoxazole: (Minor) Probenecid may inhibit the renal transport of sulfonamides. Plasma concentrations of these agents may be increased.
sulfaSALAzine: (Minor) Probenecid may inhibit the renal transport of sulfonamides. Plasma concentrations of these agents may be increased.
Sulfonamides: (Minor) Probenecid may inhibit the renal transport of sulfonamides. Plasma concentrations of these agents may be increased.
Sulfonylureas: (Moderate) Probenecid is highly protein bound, and the hypoglycemic effect of sulfonylureas made be potentiated if these drugs are coadministered.
Sulindac: (Major) Increases in the plasma concentration of sulindac and the inactive sulfone metabolite have been observed following concomitant administration with probenecid; however, the plasma concentration of the active sulfide metabolite was only slightly affected. The mechanism of this interaction may be through the inhibition of renal clearance. Concurrent use of probenecid and sulindac also modestly reduced the uricosuric action of probenecid. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of sulindac toxicity if probenecid and sulindac are used concurrently.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Major) Substantial increases in the plasma concentration of naproxen anion have been observed following concomitant administration with probenecid. Plasma concentrations of naproxen can be increased by 50% and its half-life increased to 37 hours. The mechanism of this interaction may be through the inhibition of the formation of naproxen's glucuronide metabolite as well as inhibition of renal clearance.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause hyperuricemia. Although this effect represents a pharmacodynamic interaction and not a pharmacokinetic one, dosage adjustments of probenecid may be necessary if these agents are administered concurrently to patients being treated with probenecid.
Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent, such as probenecid; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Teriflunomide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in sulopenem-related adverse effects (i.e., diarrhea, nausea) if concomitant use with teriflunomide is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sulopenem exposure. Sulopenem is an OAT3 substrate and teriflunomide is an OAT3 inhibitor.
Thiazide diuretics: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause hyperuricemia. Although this effect represents a pharmacodynamic interaction and not a pharmacokinetic one, dosage adjustments of probenecid may be necessary if these agents are administered concurrently to patients being treated with probenecid.
Tolmetin: (Major) Probenecid can decrease the renal clearance of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agents (NSAIDs). Reduction of the NSAID dose may be necessary when it is used together with probenecid.
Topiramate: (Minor) Probenecid may increase the renal clearance of topiramate resulting in lower topiramate concentrations. Although not evaluated in humans, animal studies using probenecid along with topiramate showed a significant increase in renal clearance of topiramate. This suggests that topiramate may undergo renal tubular reabsorption. Probenecid may block renal tubular reabsorption of topiramate, thus increasing the renal clearance of the drug.
Triamterene: (Moderate) Probenecid has uricosuric actions. Triamterene can also cause hyperuricemia. Although this effect represents a pharmacodynamic interaction, dosage adjustments of probenecid may be necessary if triamterene is administered to patients being treated with probenecid.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Probenecid has uricosuric actions. Triamterene can also cause hyperuricemia. Although this effect represents a pharmacodynamic interaction, dosage adjustments of probenecid may be necessary if triamterene is administered to patients being treated with probenecid. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause hyperuricemia. Although this effect represents a pharmacodynamic interaction and not a pharmacokinetic one, dosage adjustments of probenecid may be necessary if these agents are administered concurrently to patients being treated with probenecid.
Vadadustat: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in sulopenem-related adverse effects (i.e., diarrhea, nausea) if concomitant use with vadadustat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sulopenem exposure. Sulopenem is an OAT3 substrate and vadadustat is an OAT3 inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for too large or too rapid an increase in hemoglobin response and an increase in vadadustat-related adverse effects if concomitant use with probenecid is necessary. Concomitant use may increase vadadustat exposure. Vadadustat is an OAT1/3 substrate and probenecid is an OAT1/3 inhibitor. Concomitant use increased vadadustat overall exposure by approximately 1.75-fold.
valACYclovir: (Moderate) Probenecid can reduce the renal tubular secretion of valacyclovir when these agents are coadministered, causing an increase in the serum concentration and elimination half-life of valacyclovir.
valGANciclovir: (Moderate) Probenecid may inhibit renal tubular secretion of valganciclovir, possibly potentiating valganciclovir toxicity. Patients should be monitored for increased valganciclovir toxicity when taking probenecid.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause hyperuricemia. Although this effect represents a pharmacodynamic interaction and not a pharmacokinetic one, dosage adjustments of probenecid may be necessary if these agents are administered concurrently to patients being treated with probenecid.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin: (Minor) Probenecid competitively inhibits renal tubular secretion and causes higher, prolonged serum levels of penicillins. In general, this pharmacokinetic interaction is not harmful and can be used therapeutically if needed.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Minor) Probenecid competitively inhibits renal tubular secretion and causes higher, prolonged serum levels of penicillins. In general, this pharmacokinetic interaction is not harmful and can be used therapeutically if needed.
Zidovudine, ZDV: (Major) Concomitant use of probenecid with zidovudine, ZDV may produce substantially higher serum concentrations of zidovudine.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    confusion, dizziness, drowsiness, dysgeusia, dystonic reaction, headache, migraine, paresthesias, syncope, vertigo
    General Information
    Headache was reported with sulopenem etzadroxil; probenecid in 2% of subjects in clinical trials. Other nervous system or psychiatric adverse reactions reported with sulopenem etzadroxil; probenecid in less than 1% of subjects include ageusia, confusion, dizziness, drowsiness, dysgeusia, dystonic reaction, migraine, paresthesias, presyncope, syncope, and vertigo.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      confusion
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dysgeusia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dystonic reaction
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      migraine
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      paresthesias
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      syncope
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vertigo
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    flushing, hypertension, sinus tachycardia
    General Information
    Cardiovascular adverse events reported with sulopenem etzadroxil; probenecid in less than 1% of subjects in clinical trials include flushing, hypertension, and sinus tachycardia.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      flushing
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      sinus tachycardia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    abdominal pain, anorexia, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, eructation, flatulence, gastroesophageal reflux, nausea, stool discoloration, vomiting, xerostomia
    General Information
    Abdominal pain (1%) including abdominal discomfort, diarrhea (10%) including loose stools, nausea (4%), and vomiting (2%) have been reported with sulopenem etzadroxil; probenecid in clinical trials. Other gastrointestinal adverse reactions reported with sulopenem etzadroxil; probenecid in less than 1% of subjects in clinical trials include abdominal distension, abnormal feces, constipation, dry mouth (xerostomia), dyspepsia, eructation, flatulence, gastroesophageal reflux disease, soft feces, and stool discoloration. Anorexia and sore gums have been reported with probenecid.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspepsia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      eructation
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      flatulence
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      gastroesophageal reflux
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      stool discoloration
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    cough, dyspnea
    General Information
    Respiratory adverse events reported with sulopenem etzadroxil; probenecid in less than 1% of subjects in clinical trials include cough and dyspnea.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatic necrosis, hepatomegaly
    General Information
    Hepatobiliary adverse events reported with sulopenem etzadroxil; probenecid in less than 1% of subjects in clinical trials include elevated hepatic enzymes and hepatomegaly. Hepatic necrosis has been reported with probenecid.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hepatic necrosis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hepatomegaly
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    colic, costovertebral pain, hematuria, increased urinary frequency, nephrotic syndrome, uric acid nephrolithiasis, uric acid nephropathy
    General Information
    Abnormal urine odor was reported with sulopenem etzadroxil; probenecid in less than 1% of subjects in clinical trials. Costovertebral pain, nephrotic syndrome, renal colic, uric acid nephrolithiasis with or without hematuria, and increased urinary frequency have been reported with probenecid. The probenecid component may increase the risk of uric acid nephropathy in individuals at risk for tumor lysis syndrome.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      costovertebral pain
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hematuria
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      increased urinary frequency
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      nephrotic syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      colic
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      uric acid nephropathy
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    perineal pain, vaginal discharge
    General Information
    Perineal pain, vaginal discharge, and vulvovaginal pruritus were reported with sulopenem etzadroxil; probenecid in less than 1% of subjects in clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      perineal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vaginal discharge
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    C. difficile-associated diarrhea, candidiasis, infection, pseudomembranous colitis, superinfection
    General Information
    Microbial overgrowth and superinfection can occur with antibiotic use. C. difficile-associated diarrhea (CDAD) or pseudomembranous colitis has been reported for nearly all systemic antibacterial drugs, which may range in severity from mild to life-threatening. Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C. difficile. If pseudomembranous colitis is suspected or confirmed, ongoing antibacterial therapy not directed against C. difficile may need to be discontinued. Institute appropriate fluid and electrolyte management, protein supplementation, C. difficile-directed antibacterial therapy, and surgical evaluation as clinically appropriate. Careful medical history is necessary as pseudomembranous colitis has been reported to occur over 2 months after the administration of antibacterial agents. Vulvovaginal mycotic infection, including vulvovaginal candidiasis, vaginal infection, fungal infection, fungal genital infection, and yeast infection, was reported with sulopenem etzadroxil; probenecid in 2% of subjects in clinical trials. Other infections reported with sulopenem etzadroxil; probenecid in less than 1% of subjects include bacterial vaginosis, Candida infection (candidiasis), and candiduria.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      C. difficile-associated diarrhea
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      candidiasis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pseudomembranous colitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      superinfection
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    arthralgia, back pain
    General Information
    Musculoskeletal adverse events reported with sulopenem etzadroxil; probenecid in less than 1% of subjects in clinical trials include arthralgia, back pain, and myositis.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      back pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    gout, polydipsia
    General Information
    Metabolic adverse events reported with sulopenem etzadroxil; probenecid in less than 1% of subjects in clinical trials include polydipsia. Exacerbation or precipitation of acute gout has been reported with probenecid.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      polydipsia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      gout
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    alopecia, pruritus, rash
    General Information
    Dermatologic adverse events reported with sulopenem etzadroxil; probenecid in less than 1% of subjects in clinical trials include pruritus and rash. Alopecia has been reported with probenecid.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      alopecia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anemia, aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia, leukopenia
    General Information
    Anemia, aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia (which may be related to genetic deficiency of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase in red blood cells in some individuals), and leukopenia have been reported with probenecid.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      aplastic anemia
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hemolytic anemia
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      leukopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    asthenia, fatigue, fever, malaise, peripheral edema
    General Information
    Asthenia, fatigue, fever, malaise, peripheral edema, and pain have been reported with sulopenem etzadroxil; probenecid in less than 1% of subjects in clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      malaise
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, urticaria
    General Information
    Hypersensitivity reactions, specifically angioedema (less than 1%), have been reported with sulopenem etzadroxil; probenecid. Serious and occasionally fatal hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylactoid reactions, and serious skin reactions have been reported with beta-lactam antibiotics. Severe allergic reactions, anaphylaxis, and urticaria have been reported with probenecid. If an allergic reaction to sulopenem etzadroxil; probenecid occurs, discontinue the drug and institute appropriate supportive measures.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor

Description
  Text
  Sulopenem etzadroxil; probenecid is an oral combination of a thiopenem antibacterial and a renal tubular transport inhibitor indicated for the treatment of uncomplicated urinary tract infections in adult women who have limited or no alternative oral antibacterial treatment options. Thiopenems are beta-lactam antibiotics. Sulopenem demonstrated activity against Enterobacterales in the presence of certain beta-lactamases and extended spectrum beta-lactamases (ESBLs). It has also demonstrated stability against class C cephalosporinases. Gastrointestinal effects are the most common adverse reactions. The probenecid component may precipitate or exacerbate gout. Sulopenem etzadroxil; probenecid is not recommended for use when CrCl is less than 15 mL/min or for those on dialysis.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Sulopenem etzadroxil; probenecid is a combination of a thiopenem antibacterial and a renal tubular inhibitor.
 
Sulopenem etzadroxil is a prodrug that is hydrolyzed to the active drug sulopenem after oral administration. The bactericidal activity of sulopenem results from the inhibition of the third and final stage of bacterial cell wall synthesis by preferentially binding to specific penicillin-binding proteins (PBPs) that are located inside the bacterial cell wall. PBPs are responsible for several steps in the synthesis of the cell wall and are found in quantities of several hundred to several thousand molecules per bacterial cell. PBPs vary among different bacterial species. Thus, the intrinsic activity of sulopenem against a particular organism depends on its ability to gain access to and bind with the necessary PBP. Sulopenem demonstrated binding affinity for PBPs in the following order, starting with the greatest to least binding affinity: PBP2, PBP1A, PBP1B, PBP4, PBP3, and PBP5 or PBP6. Like all beta-lactam antibiotics, sulopenem's ability to interfere with PBP-mediated cell wall synthesis ultimately leads to cell lysis. Lysis is mediated by bacterial cell wall autolytic enzymes (i.e., autolysins). The relationship between PBPs and autolysins is unclear, but it is possible that the beta-lactam antibiotic interferes with an autolysin inhibitor.
 
Beta-lactams, including sulopenem, exhibit concentration-independent or time-dependent killing. In vitro and in vivo animal studies have demonstrated that the major pharmacodynamic parameter that determines efficacy for beta-lactams is the amount of time free (non-protein bound) drug concentrations exceed the minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) of the organism (free T above the MIC). The percentage of time that unbound plasma concentrations of sulopenem exceed the sulopenem minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) against the infecting organism has been shown to best correlate with efficacy in vitro. This microbiological killing pattern is due to the mechanism of action, which is acylation of PBPs. There is a maximum proportion of PBPs that can be acylated; therefore, once maximum acylation has occurred, killing rates cannot increase. Free beta-lactam concentrations do not have to remain above the MIC for the entire dosing interval. The percentage of time required for both bacteriostatic and maximal bactericidal activity is different for the various classes of beta-lactams.
 
The C2 side chain of sulopenem improves its penetration into E. coli. Affinity to S. aureus PBP2 as well as PBP1 and PBP3 of E. coli is greater for sulopenem than imipenem. The PBP binding pattern of sulopenem may alter host endotoxin release in gram-negative organisms by causing a slower cell lysis which may limit the release of endotoxins. Sulopenem demonstrated activity against Enterobacterales in the presence of certain beta-lactamases and extended spectrum beta-lactamases (ESBLs), including AmpC, CTX-M, TEM, and SHV. It has also demonstrated stability against class C cephalosporinases.
 
The susceptibility interpretive criteria for sulopenem are delineated by pathogen. The MICs are defined for Enterobacterales as susceptible at 0.25 mcg/mL or less, intermediate at 0.5 mcg/mL, and resistant at 1 mcg/mL or more.
 
Resistance to sulopenem is caused by certain ESBLs (including carbapenemases), alteration of PBPs, over expression of efflux pumps, and loss of outer membrane porins.
 
Probenecid is an uricosuric and renal tubular blocking agent. Probenecid inhibits OAT3-mediated renal clearance of sulopenem, resulting in increased plasma concentrations of sulopenem.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Sulopenem: No clinically significant sulopenem divergence from dose-proportionally was observed over a dose range of 400 mg to 2,000 mg (0.8 to 4 times the approved recommended sulopenem etzadroxil dosage). After a single oral dose, the bioavailability of sulopenem is 40% before food and 64% after food. At a steady state, the Cmax of sulopenem was 1.84 mcg/mL before food and 2.66 mcg/mL after food. The AUC0-inf was 4.85 mcg x hour/mL before food and 7.41 mcg x hour/mL after food. A high fat meal increased the Cmax by 45% and the AUC0-inf by 48%. The Tmax was 1 hour before food and 2 hours after food.
Probenecid: The bioavailability of probenecid is unknown. After a single oral dose, the Cmax of probenecid was 41.2 mcg/mL before food and 30.4 mcg/mL after food. The AUC0-inf was 255 mcg x hour/mL before food and 237 mcg x hour/mL after food. A high fat meal decreased the Cmax by 27% and the AUC0-inf by 8%. The Tmax was 3 hours before food and 2 hours after food.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    The pharmacokinetics of sulopenem in individuals with hepatic impairment is unknown.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    The mean plasma AUC0-inf of sulopenem increased by 2-fold in patients with mild renal impairment (CrCL 60 to 89 mL/min, estimated by Cockcroft-Gault equation), 3-fold in patients with moderate renal impairment (CrCL 30 to 59 mL/min) and 7.4-fold in patients with severe renal impairment (CrCL 15 to 29 mL/min) following an oral administration of 1,000 mg of sulopenem etzadroxil. The effect of kidney failure (CrCL less than 15 mL/min) or hemodialysis on sulopenem pharmacokinetics is unknown.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of sulopenem were observed based on age.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of sulopenem were observed based on sex.
    Name
    Obesity
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of sulopenem were observed based on weight.
  Text
  Sulopenem etzadroxil; probenecid is administered orally.
Sulopenem: Sulopenem etzadroxil is the prodrug of sulopenem. Sulopenem protein-binding is approximately 11% for sulopenem and has an apparent volume of distribution of 134 L before food and 92.09 L after food. The elimination half-life of sulopenem is 1.18 hours before food and 1.28 hours after food, while. Sulopenem etzadroxil is hydrolyzed by esterases to active sulopenem then further metabolized by hydrolysis followed by dehydrogenation to inactive metabolites M1a and M1b. Sulopenem, M1a and M1b, accounted for 32%, 21.8% and 43.6% of circulating radioactivity, respectively. After oral administration of a single radiolabeled dose, 44.3% (26.9% unchanged) of sulopenem was recovered in feces and 40.8% (3.1% unchanged) in urine.
Probenecid: The apparent volume of distribution and elimination pathways for probenecid are unknown. Probenecid has an apparent volume of distribution of 8.81 L before food and 11.94 L after food and an elimination half-life of 2.93 hours before food and 3.83 hours after food.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: OAT1, OAT3
Sulopenem: In vitro, sulopenem is a substrate of OAT3 and does not inhibit CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6 or CYP3A BCRP, P-gP, BSEP, MATE1, MATE2K, OAT1, OAT3, OATP1B1, OATP1B3, OCT1, or OCT2. It does not or induce CYP1A2, CYP2B6, or CYP3A4/5.
Probenecid: Probenecid is a substrate for BCRP and an inhibitor of OAT1 and OAT3, but does not inhibit BSEP, P-gP, or MRP2.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Administer with food.
If a dose is missed, administer it as soon as possible. If it is almost time for the next dose, administer only the scheduled dose. Do administer double or extra doses.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    1,000 mg/day sulopenem etzadroxil and 1,000 mg/day probenecid PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    1,000 mg/day sulopenem etzadroxil and 1,000 mg/day probenecid PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
  Renal Impairment
  CrCL greater than or equal to 15 mL/min: No dosage adjustment necessary.
CrCL less than 15 mL/min: Use is not recommended.
 
Intermittent hemodialysis
Use is not recommended.
