=== Anacaulase — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 5434)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Anacaulase is a topical gel containing proteolytic enzymes and is indicated for eschar removal in patients with deep partial thickness and/or full thickness thermal burns.

Routes: topical; Common adult doses: Maximum dosage is dependent on the size of the wound bed.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): anaphylactoid reactions, pruritus, rash, urticaria, fever, infection, leukocytosis, pharyngitis, sepsis

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Anacaulase is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to bromelain, pineapples or to any other component of anacaulase.

ANACAULASE

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

NexoBrid

Indication Specific Dosing

For eschar removal in patients with deep partial thickness (DPT) and/or full thickness (FT) thermal burns

Topical dosage
Adults


Apply 3 mm thick layer of gel to an area of up to 15% body surface area (BSA) in 1 application. A second application may be applied 24 hours after the first application to either the same area previously treated or to a new area if the wound area is more than 15% BSA, multiple wound areas on different body surfaces require 2 treatments for logistical reasons such as body position, or the first application's eschar removal was incomplete. For both applications, the total treated area must not exceed 20% BSA. Remove 4 hours after each application.


Children and Adolescents 6 to 17 years


Apply 3 mm thick layer of gel to an area of up to 15% body surface area (BSA) in 1 application. Remove 4 hours after application. A second application is not recommended.


Infants and Children 1 to 5 years


Apply 3 mm thick layer of gel to an area of up to 10% body surface area (BSA) in 1 application. Remove 4 hours after application. A second application is not recommended.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Anacaulase is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to bromelain, pineapples or to any other component of anacaulase. Anacaulase is also contraindicated in patients with known papaya or papain hypersensitivity because of the risk of cross-sensitivity. Serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, have been reported with postmarketing use of anacaulase. If a hypersensitivity reaction occurs, remove anacaulase (if applicable) and institute appropriate therapy.

bleeding disorder, peptic ulcer disease, sepsis


A reduction of platelet aggregation and plasma fibrinogen concentration and a moderate increase in partial thromboplastin and prothrombin times have been reported in the literature as possible effects following oral administration of bromelain, a component of anacaulase. In vitro and animal data suggest that bromelain can also promote fibrinolysis. Avoid use of anacaulase in patients with uncontrolled disorders of coagulation. Use anacaulase with caution in patients on anticoagulant therapy or other drugs affecting coagulation, and in patients with low platelet counts (thrombocytopenia) and increased risk of bleeding (bleeding disorder) from other causes (e.g., peptic ulcer disease and sepsis). Monitor patients for possible signs of coagulation abnormalities and signs of bleeding.


pregnancy


No clinical data are available regarding the use of anacaulase during pregnancy to assess the risk of major congenital malformations, miscarriage, or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. In animal studies, intravenous administration of anacaulase at doses up to 4 mg/kg/day did not result in significant developmental toxicity. However, severe maternal toxicities were observed and the tolerable maternal exposure levels were substantially lower than the maximum exposures seen in humans during clinical use.


breast-feeding


There are no data on the presence of anacaulase in human or animal milk, the effects on the breastfed child, or the effects on milk production. Consider the developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding alongside the person's clinical need for anacaulase and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from anacaulase or the underlying maternal condition.


Pregnancy And Lactation


No clinical data are available regarding the use of anacaulase during pregnancy to assess the risk of major congenital malformations, miscarriage, or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. In animal studies, intravenous administration of anacaulase at doses up to 4 mg/kg/day did not result in significant developmental toxicity. However, severe maternal toxicities were observed and the tolerable maternal exposure levels were substantially lower than the maximum exposures seen in humans during clinical use.


Interactions

There are no drug interactions associated with Anacaulase products.

Adverse Reaction
anaphylactoid reactions, pruritus, rash, urticaria


Hypersensitivity (1%, adults), pruritus (15%, adults; 13%, pediatrics), and rash (3% adults and pediatrics) were reported in patients receiving anacaulase during clinical trials. Serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylactoid reactions and urticaria, have been reported with postmarketing use of anacaulase. If a hypersensitivity reaction occurs, remove anacaulase (if applicable) and initiate appropriate therapy.


impaired wound healing, wound dehiscence


Wound dehiscence (9%) or impaired wound healing (9%), which includes skin graft failure, graft loss, graft complication, and wound decomposition, was reported in adult patients receiving anacaulase during clinical trials.


constipation, nausea, vomiting


Vomiting (5%) and abnormal hepatic function (1%) were reported in adult patients receiving anacaulase during clinical trials. Vomiting (7%), nausea (4%), and constipation (4%) were reported during pediatric clinical trials.


fever, infection, leukocytosis, pharyngitis, sepsis


Fever (12%), urinary tract infection (4%), unspecified infection (2%), sepsis (2%), bacteremia (1%), and leukocytosis (2%) were reported in adult patients receiving anacaulase during clinical trials. Fever (10%), naso-pharyngitis (4%), rhinovirus (3%), and ear infection (3%) were reported in pediatric patients receiving anacaulase during clinical trials.


skin ulcer


Decubitus ulcer or skin ulcer (1%) and scar (1%) were reported in adult patients receiving anacaulase during clinical trials.


anemia, hematoma


Anemia (6%) and subcutaneous hematoma (1%) were reported in adult patients receiving anacaulase during clinical trials. Decreased hemoglobin was reported in 3% of pediatric patients receiving anacaulase during clinical trials.


hypotension, sinus tachycardia


Hypotension (2%) and sinus tachycardia (3%) were reported in adult patients receiving anacaulase during clinical trials.


insomnia


Insomnia (5%) was reported in adult patients receiving anacaulase during clinical trials.


Description

Anacaulase is a topical gel containing proteolytic enzymes and is indicated for eschar removal in patients with deep partial thickness and/or full thickness thermal burns. Anacaulase is extracted from the stems of pineapple plants and is composed mainly (80% to 95% w/w) of the proteins: stem bromelain, ananain, jacalin-like lectin, bromelain inhibitors, and phytocystatin inhibitor; and saccharides, as both free monosaccharides and the N-linked glycan of stem bromelain, and small molecule metabolites. Anacaulase is not recommended for wounds contaminated with radioactive and other hazardous substances to avoid unforeseeable reactions with the product and an increased risk of spreading the noxious substance. The safety and effectiveness have not been established for treatment of chemical or electrical burns; burns on the face, perineum, or genitalia; burns on the feet of patients with diabetes mellitus or on the feet of patients with occlusive vascular disease; circumferential burns; or burns in patients with significant cardiopulmonary disease, including inhalation injury. Anacaulase was FDA-approved in 2022.

Mechanism Of Action

The mixture of proteolytic enzymes in anacaulase dissolves burn wound eschar. The specific components responsible for this effect have not been identified.

Pharmacokinetics

Anacaulase is applied topically. The terminal half-life of bromelain, a component of anacaulase-bcbd, is 12 +/- 4.4 hours. A majority of drug recipients had no quantifiable serum concentrations after 72 hours.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP2C8, CYP2C9
Bromelain exhibits CYP2C8 time-dependent inhibition in human hepatocytes and inhibits human microsomal CYP2C9. No clinical studies have been conducted to assess the potential for systemic drug interactions.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Topical Route

After topical application to deep partial and full thickness burn wounds, the drug is absorbed with a median Tmax of 4 hours (during the treatment application). Systemic exposure (i.e., AUC) of bromelain is correlated with the size of the treated area and anacaulase dose, but not the depth of the burn wound. In adult subjects, the Cmax and the dose-normalized Cmax values after the first and second application (mean dosing interval of 17 hours) are comparable and only slight accumulation (less than 2-fold difference) is seen in AUC0-4 and AUC0-4 dose-normalized concentrations after the second application, compared to the first application.

Pediatrics

Children and Adolescents 4 to 17 years
The systemic exposure of anacaulase in pediatric patients 4 years and older is similar to adult patients.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Topical Administration


Anacaulase is only to be administered by a health care provider; take precautions to avoid exposure to anacaulase during preparation and handling (e.g., use of gloves, surgical masks, other protective coverings, as needed).


Other Topical Formulations

Topical Gel
Preparation of Patient and Burn Wound Treatment Area
Use pain management as practiced for an extensive dressing change of burn wounds 15 minutes prior to all anacaulase-related procedures.
Thoroughly clean the wound to remove any charred tissue, blisters, and any topical products.
Apply a dressing soaked with an antibacterial solution to the treatment area for at least 2 hours.
Ensure the wound bed is clear of any remnants of topical agents (e.g. silver sulfadiazine or povidone iodine).
Apply an ointment skin protectant (e.g., petrolatum) 2 to 3 cm outside of the treatment area to create an ointment barrier. Avoid applying the ointment to the treatment area itself, as this would impede direct contact of anacaulase with the eschar.
Protect any open wound (i.e., laceration, skin abrasion, or escharotomy incision) with skin protectant ointment or ointment gauze to prevent possible exposure to anacaulase.
 
Preparation of Gel
Gather the following sterile supplies prior to anacaulase preparation and application: instrument for mixing (e.g., spatula or tongue depressor), tongue depressor for application, 0.9% Sodium Chloride Irrigation, occlusive film dressing, and loose, thick fluffy dressing and bandage
Prepare anacaulase at the patient's bedside within 15 minutes of the intended application.
Using aseptic technique, pour the lyophilized powder into the gel vehicle jar. Thoroughly mix the lyophilized powder and gel vehicle using a sterile instrument (e.g., tongue depressor or spatula) until the mixture is uniform. The mixed lyophilized powder and gel vehicle produce anacaulase in a final concentration of 8.8% w/w.
Discard if not used within 15 minutes of preparation, as the enzymatic activity of the product decreases progressively after mixing.
 
Application of Gel
Apply within 15 minutes of preparation.
Moisten the treatment area by sprinkling 0.9% Sodium Chloride Irrigation onto the burn wound.
Using a sterile tongue depressor, completely cover the moistened burn wound area with the mixed gel in a 3 mm thick layer (approximate thickness of a tongue depressor) that completely covers the entire target treatment area.
Cover the treated wound with a sterile occlusive film dressing.
Gently press the occlusive film dressing at the area of contact with the ointment barrier to ensure adherence between the occlusive film dressing and the ointment barrier and to achieve complete containment of anacaulase on the treatment area. There should be no visible air under the occlusive film dressing.
Cover the dressed wound with a sterile loose, thick, fluffy dressing and secure with a sterile bandage.
Discard any unused portions of gel.
 
Removal of Gel
Remove anacaulase after 4 hours.
Gather the following sterile supplies prior to anacaulase removal: blunt-edged instruments (e.g., tongue depressor), large dry gauze, gauze soaked with 0.9% Sodium Chloride Irrigation, and dressing soaked with an antibacterial solution.
Remove the occlusive film dressing using aseptic technique.
Remove the dissolved eschar from the wound by scraping it away with a sterile blunt-edged instrument.
Wipe the wound thoroughly with a large sterile dry gauze, then wipe with a sterile gauze that has been soaked with 0.9% Sodium Chloride Irrigation. Rub the treated area until the appearance of a clean dermis or subcutaneous tissues with pinpoint bleeding.
To remove remnants of dissolved eschar, apply a dressing soaked with an antibacterial solution for at least 2 hours.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

Maximum dosage is dependent on the size of the wound bed.

Geriatric

Maximum dosage is dependent on the size of the wound bed.

Adolescents

Maximum dosage is dependent on the size of the wound bed.

Children

Maximum dosage is dependent on the size of the wound bed.

Infants

Maximum dosage is dependent on the size of the wound bed.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

NexoBrid 8.8% Topical Gel

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

Renal Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

© 2026 Elsevier