=== Etrasimod (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5491)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Etrasimod is an oral sphingosine 1-phosphate receptor modulator.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 2 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): cystitis, infection, meningitis, av block, bradycardia, hypertension, cholestasis, elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatotoxicity, hyperbilirubinemia, jaundice, encephalopathy, immune reconstitution syndrome, progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, dizziness, headache, migraine, merkel cell carcinoma, new primary malignancy, skin cancer

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Avoid vaccination with live vaccines due to potential immunosuppression and increased risk of infection during etrasimod therapy.

Brand Names
  - VELSIPITY

Dosage Forms
  - VELSIPITY 2mg Tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  General Information
  Prior to etrasimod administration
Obtain a recent (within the last 6 months or after discontinuation of prior UC therapy) complete blood count, including lymphocyte count.
Obtain an electrocardiogram (ECG) in all patients prior to etrasimod initiation. Certain patients with preexisting conditions also require a cardiac evaluation by an appropriately trained physician prior to treatment initiation.
Determine whether patients are taking drugs that could slow heart rate or atrioventricular (AV) conduction prior to treatment initiation.
Evaluate the use of concomitant immunosuppressive medications and consider their additive effects.
Test patients without a confirmed history of chickenpox or without documentation of a full course of vaccination against varicella zoster virus (VZV) for antibodies to VZV prior to treatment initiation. Vaccinate antibody-negative patients prior to treatment initiation. If live attenuated vaccines are required, postpone etrasimod initiation for 1 month after vaccination to allow the full effect of vaccination to occur. Update patient vaccinations accordingly before etrasimod initiation.
Obtain serum transaminase (ALT and AST) and total bilirubin concentrations if they have not been acquired in the last 6 months.
Obtain an ophthalmologic evaluation of the fundus, including the macula, near the start of treatment.
Obtain a skin examination before or shortly after initiation of etrasimod. Promptly evaluate any skin suspicious lesions.
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        2 mg PO once daily. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.
    Heading
    For the treatment of moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    Avoid vaccination with live vaccines due to potential immunosuppression and increased risk of infection during etrasimod therapy. Test individuals without a confirmed history of chickenpox or without documentation of a full course of vaccination against varicella zoster virus (VZV) for antibodies to VZV before initiating etrasimod treatment. Vaccinate antibody-negative individuals prior to treatment initiation. If live attenuated vaccines are required, administer at least 4 weeks prior to initiation of etrasimod. Update individual vaccinations accordingly before etrasimod initiation.
    Headline
    acute coronary syndrome, acute heart failure, bradycardia, cardiac arrest, cardiac arrhythmias, cardiomyopathy, cerebrovascular disease, congenital long QT syndrome, coronary artery disease, females, geriatric, heart failure, hypertension, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, QT prolongation, sleep apnea, syncope
    General Information
    Etrasimod is contraindicated in people who in the past 6 months have experienced acute coronary syndrome (e.g., myocardial infarction, unstable angina), stroke or transient ischemic attack (TIA), decompensated acute heart failure requiring hospitalization, New York Heart Association Class III heart failure, or New York Heart Association Class IV heart failure. Etrasimod is also contraindicated in people with a history or presence of Mobitz Type II second or third-degree AV block, sick sinus syndrome, or sino-atrial block unless the patient has a functioning pacemaker. Etrasimod initiation may result in decreased heart rate and transient atrioventricular conduction delays. Obtain an electrocardiogram (ECG) to determine whether preexisting conduction abnormalities are present prior to treatment initiation. Consult a cardiologist prior to treatment if etrasimod is considered for use in patients with significant QT prolongation (QTcF more than 450 msec in males or more than 470 msec in females), cardiac arrhythmias requiring treatment with Class Ia or class III anti-arrhythmic drugs, unstable coronary artery disease, New York Heart Association Class I failure or New York Heart Association Class II heart failure, history of cardiac arrest, cerebrovascular disease or stroke, uncontrolled hypertension, resting heart rate less than 50 bpm, history of symptomatic bradycardia, recurrent cardiogenic syncope, severe untreated sleep apnea, or history of Mobitz type I second-degree AV block without a functioning pacemaker. These patients may poorly tolerate etrasimod-induced bradycardia or may experience serious rhythm disturbances. Use etrasimod with caution in people with baseline QT prolongation or who have conditions that may increase the risk of QT prolongation or torsade de pointes, including bradycardia, congenital long QT syndrome, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, geriatric adults, females, structural abnormalities that interfere with electrical conduction (e.g., cardiomyopathy, coronary artery disease, ischemic heart disease), or in those who have other additional risk factors for QT prolongation or torsade de pointes. The use of other medications that have been associated with QT prolongation or torsade de pointes may further increase risk. Etrasimod may also increase blood pressure and produce hypertension, so all patients, and especially those with pre-existing hypertension, should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring during treatment.
    Headline
    infection
    General Information
    Etrasimod may increase the risk for infection. Delay initiation of etrasimod in patients with an active infection until the infection is resolved. Life-threatening and rare fatal infections have occurred in patients receiving other sphingosine 1-phosphate receptor modulators. Consider interruption of etrasimod treatment if a patient develops a serious infection. The pharmacodynamic effects of etrasimod, including decreased lymphocyte counts, may continue for up to 5 weeks following the last dose, and increased risks for infection may continue during this time.
    Headline
    asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), respiratory insufficiency
    General Information
    Cautious use of etrasimod may be warranted for patients with respiratory insufficiency, including untreated sleep apnea. Reductions in absolute forced expiratory volume over 1 second (FEV1) and forced vital capacity (FVC) were seen as early as 3 months after etrasimod initiation during clinical trials. There is insufficient information to determine the reversibility of the decrease in FEV1 after drug discontinuation. Spirometric evaluation of respiratory function should be preformed during therapy with etrasimod if clinically indicated.
    Headline
    Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure
    General Information
    Etrasimod undergoes extensive hepatic metabolism; therefore, etrasimod is not recommended for use in individuals with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C) or hepatic failure. No dosage adjustment is needed in individuals with mild and moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class A and B). Etrasimod may cause elevations of aminotransferases (ALT and AST) and drug-induced liver injury. Obtain transaminase and bilirubin levels, if not recently available (i.e., within last 6 months), before initiation of etrasimod. Obtain transaminases and bilirubin in patients who develop symptoms suggestive of hepatic dysfunction. Discontinue etrasimod if significant liver injury is confirmed.
    Headline
    CYP2C9 poor metabolizer
    General Information
    Etrasimod is not recommended in individuals who are CYP2C9 poor metabolizers and who are concomitantly taking moderate to strong inhibitors of CYP2C8 or CYP3A4 since increased exposure to etrasimod is possible. CYP2C9 intermediate metabolizers may also have decreased clearance of etrasimod when used concomitantly with moderate to strong inhibitors of CYP2C8 or CYP3A4; however, the effect of etrasimod on exposure to CYP2C9 intermediate metabolizers with concomitant CYP2C8 or CYP3A4 inhibitors is not known.
    Headline
    skin cancer
    General Information
    Perform a baseline skin examination before or shortly after etrasimod initiation and periodically during treatment for all individuals, particularly for those with risk factors for skin cancer. Monitor for and promptly evaluate any suspicious skin lesions. The risk of cutaneous malignancies (including basal cell carcinoma, squamous cell carcinoma, and melanoma) is increased in people treated with sphingosine 1-phosphate receptor (S1P) receptor modulators in controlled trials. Kaposi's sarcoma and Merkel cell carcinoma have also been reported with these drugs in the postmarketing setting.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Based on animal studies, etrasimod may cause fetal harm when administered during pregnancy. Available data on the use of etrasimod during human pregnancy is insufficient to identify a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. Etrasimod caused embryo-fetal toxicity in rat and rabbit studies at clinically relevant doses. During organogenesis, it led to embryo lethality and fetal malformations in both rats and rabbits at maternal exposures 5 and 6 times, respectively, the exposure at the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD); no maternal toxicity was observed up to 21 times the exposure at the MRHD in rats. In pregnant rats, doses of 4 mg/kg/day (21 times the exposure at the MRHD) increased post-implantation loss and doses of 1 to 4 mg/kg/day (up to 21 times MRHD exposure) caused fetal malformations at all doses. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors outcomes in pregnant patients exposed to etrasimod; information about the registry can be obtained by calling 1-800-616-3791.
    Headline
    people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel people who may become pregnant about the reproductive risk associated with etrasimod, as the medication may cause fetal harm. People who may become pregnant should use effective contraception while taking etrasimod and for 1 week after the last dose.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use etrasimod with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of etrasimod in human milk, the effects on the breastfed infant, or the effects on milk production. The long half-life and risk of severe adverse events in the infant make etrasimod a poor choice in breast-feeding individuals. Following oral administration, etrasimod was detected in the plasma of the rat offspring, suggesting excretion of etrasimod in milk. Consider the developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding along with the mother's clinical need for etrasimod and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from etrasimod or the underlying maternal condition.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Based on animal studies, etrasimod may cause fetal harm when administered during pregnancy. Available data on the use of etrasimod during human pregnancy is insufficient to identify a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. Etrasimod caused embryo-fetal toxicity in rat and rabbit studies at clinically relevant doses. During organogenesis, it led to embryo lethality and fetal malformations in both rats and rabbits at maternal exposures 5 and 6 times, respectively, the exposure at the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD); no maternal toxicity was observed up to 21 times the exposure at the MRHD in rats. In pregnant rats, doses of 4 mg/kg/day (21 times the exposure at the MRHD) increased post-implantation loss and doses of 1 to 4 mg/kg/day (up to 21 times MRHD exposure) caused fetal malformations at all doses. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors outcomes in pregnant patients exposed to etrasimod; information about the registry can be obtained by calling 1-800-616-3791.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use etrasimod with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of etrasimod in human milk, the effects on the breastfed infant, or the effects on milk production. The long half-life and risk of severe adverse events in the infant make etrasimod a poor choice in breast-feeding individuals. Following oral administration, etrasimod was detected in the plasma of the rat offspring, suggesting excretion of etrasimod in milk. Consider the developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding along with the mother's clinical need for etrasimod and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from etrasimod or the underlying maternal condition.

Interactions
Acebutolol: (Moderate) Monitor heart rate if concomitant use of etrasimod and a beta-blocker is necessary. Transient decreases in heart rate and AV conduction delays have been observed with etrasimod therapy which may increase the risk for bradycardia. The risk for harm may be greatest if a beta-blocker is added to a stable etrasimod regimen.
Adagrasib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and adagrasib due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and adagrasib is a moderate CYP2C9 and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Alfuzosin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and alfuzosin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Amiodarone: (Major) Concomitant use of amiodarone and etrasimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval. Due to the extremely long half-life of amiodarone, a drug interaction is possible for days to weeks after drug discontinuation.
Amisulpride: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and amisulpride increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and clarithromycin in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Anagrelide: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and anagrelide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Anthrax Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as etrasimod, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated non-live vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Apomorphine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and apomorphine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and aprepitant/fosaprepitant in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and aprepitant/fosaprepitant is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and aripiprazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Arsenic Trioxide: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and arsenic trioxide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Artemether; Lumefantrine: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and artemether increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval. (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and lumefantrine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Asenapine: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and asenapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Atazanavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and atazanavir in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and atazanavir in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and cobicistat in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Atenolol: (Moderate) Monitor heart rate if concomitant use of etrasimod and a beta-blocker is necessary. Transient decreases in heart rate and AV conduction delays have been observed with etrasimod therapy which may increase the risk for bradycardia. The risk for harm may be greatest if a beta-blocker is added to a stable etrasimod regimen.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor heart rate if concomitant use of etrasimod and a beta-blocker is necessary. Transient decreases in heart rate and AV conduction delays have been observed with etrasimod therapy which may increase the risk for bradycardia. The risk for harm may be greatest if a beta-blocker is added to a stable etrasimod regimen.
Atomoxetine: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of etrasimod and atomoxetine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Avacopan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and avacopan in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Azithromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and azithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Bacillus Calmette-Guerin Vaccine, BCG: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive agents, such as etrasimod, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before etrasimod therapy or wait until at least 5 weeks after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Bedaquiline: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and bedaquiline increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Berotralstat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and berotralstat in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and berotralstat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Beta-blockers (without QT/QTc prolongation): (Moderate) Monitor heart rate if concomitant use of etrasimod and a beta-blocker is necessary. Transient decreases in heart rate and AV conduction delays have been observed with etrasimod therapy which may increase the risk for bradycardia. The risk for harm may be greatest if a beta-blocker is added to a stable etrasimod regimen.
Betaxolol: (Moderate) Monitor heart rate if concomitant use of etrasimod and a beta-blocker is necessary. Transient decreases in heart rate and AV conduction delays have been observed with etrasimod therapy which may increase the risk for bradycardia. The risk for harm may be greatest if a beta-blocker is added to a stable etrasimod regimen.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and lenacapavir in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Bismuth Subcitrate Potassium; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and metronidazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and metronidazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Bisoprolol: (Moderate) Monitor heart rate if concomitant use of etrasimod and a beta-blocker is necessary. Transient decreases in heart rate and AV conduction delays have been observed with etrasimod therapy which may increase the risk for bradycardia. The risk for harm may be greatest if a beta-blocker is added to a stable etrasimod regimen.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor heart rate if concomitant use of etrasimod and a beta-blocker is necessary. Transient decreases in heart rate and AV conduction delays have been observed with etrasimod therapy which may increase the risk for bradycardia. The risk for harm may be greatest if a beta-blocker is added to a stable etrasimod regimen.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) Monitor heart rate if concomitant use of etrasimod and a beta-blocker is necessary. Transient decreases in heart rate and AV conduction delays have been observed with etrasimod therapy which may increase the risk for bradycardia. The risk for harm may be greatest if a beta-blocker is added to a stable etrasimod regimen.
Buprenorphine: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and buprenorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and buprenorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and rilpivirine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Carteolol: (Moderate) Monitor heart rate if concomitant use of etrasimod and a beta-blocker is necessary. Transient decreases in heart rate and AV conduction delays have been observed with etrasimod therapy which may increase the risk for bradycardia. The risk for harm may be greatest if a beta-blocker is added to a stable etrasimod regimen.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) Monitor heart rate if concomitant use of etrasimod and a beta-blocker is necessary. Transient decreases in heart rate and AV conduction delays have been observed with etrasimod therapy which may increase the risk for bradycardia. The risk for harm may be greatest if a beta-blocker is added to a stable etrasimod regimen.
Ceritinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and ceritinib in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and ceritinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Chikungunya Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive agents, such as etrasimod, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before etrasimod therapy or wait until at least 5 weeks after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Chikungunya Vaccine, Recombinant: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as etrasimod, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated non-live vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Chloramphenicol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and chloramphenicol in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Chloroquine: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and chloroquine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
chlorproMAZINE: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and chlorpromazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Cholera Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the live cholera vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to cholera bacteria after receiving the vaccine.
Ciprofloxacin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and ciprofloxacin in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and ciprofloxacin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Cisapride: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and cisapride due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Citalopram: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and citalopram increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and clarithromycin in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Clofazimine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and clofazimine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Clopidogrel: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and clopidogrel in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP2C8 substrate and clopidogrel is a moderate CYP2C8 inhibitor.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and clozapine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and cobicistat in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and promethazine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and promethazine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Conivaptan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and conivaptan in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and conivaptan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Crizotinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and crizotinib in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and crizotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
cycloSPORINE: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and cyclosporine in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and cyclosporine is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Darunavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and darunavir in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and cobicistat in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and darunavir in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and cobicistat in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and darunavir in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Dasatinib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and dasatinib may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Deferasirox: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and deferasirox in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP2C8 substrate and deferasirox is a moderate CYP2C8 inhibitor.
Degarelix: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Dengue Tetravalent Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of the live dengue virus vaccine with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Desflurane: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of etrasimod and dexmedetomidine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and quinidine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
dilTIAZem: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and diltiazem in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and diltiazem is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Additionally, concomitant use may increase the risk for bradycardia; the risk for harm may be greatest if a calcium channel blocker is added to a stable etrasimod regimen.
Diphtheria Toxoid, Tetanus Toxoid, Acellular Pertussis Vaccine, DTaP; Haemophilus influenzae type b Conjugate Vaccine; Hepatitis B Vaccine, Recombinant; Inactivated Poliovirus Vaccine, IPV: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as etrasimod, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated non-live vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Diphtheria Toxoid, Tetanus Toxoid, Acellular Pertussis Vaccine, DTaP; Haemophilus influenzae type b Conjugate Vaccine; Inactivated Poliovirus Vaccine, IPV: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as etrasimod, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated non-live vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Diphtheria Toxoid, Tetanus Toxoid, Acellular Pertussis Vaccine, DTaP; Hepatitis B Vaccine, Recombinant; Inactivated Poliovirus Vaccine, IPV : (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as etrasimod, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated non-live vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Diphtheria Toxoid, Tetanus Toxoid, Acellular Pertussis Vaccine, DTaP; Inactivated Poliovirus Vaccine, IPV: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as etrasimod, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated non-live vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Diphtheria Toxoid; Tetanus Toxoid Adsorbed, DT, Td: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as etrasimod, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated non-live vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Diphtheria/Tetanus Toxoids; Pertussis Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as etrasimod, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated non-live vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Disopyramide: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and disopyramide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Dofetilide: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and dofetilide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and rilpivirine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Donepezil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and donepezil may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and donepezil may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Dordaviprone: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and etrasimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Moderate) Monitor heart rate if concomitant use of etrasimod and a beta-blocker is necessary. Transient decreases in heart rate and AV conduction delays have been observed with etrasimod therapy which may increase the risk for bradycardia. The risk for harm may be greatest if a beta-blocker is added to a stable etrasimod regimen.
Dronedarone: (Contraindicated) Dronedarone is contraindicated with other medications that may prolong the QT/QTc interval, such as etrasimod. Additionally, concomitant use may increase etrasimod exposure and the risk for etrasimod-related adverse effects especially in patients who are CYP2C9 poor metabolizers. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
droPERidol: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and droperidol increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Duvelisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and duvelisib in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and duvelisib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Ebola Zaire Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive agents, such as etrasimod, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before etrasimod therapy or wait until at least 5 weeks after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Efavirenz: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and efavirenz may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and efavirenz may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and efavirenz may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Eliglustat: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of etrasimod and eliglustat although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and cobicistat in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and cobicistat in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and rilpivirine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and rilpivirine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Encorafenib: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and encorafenib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Ensitrelvir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and ensitrelvir in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Entrectinib: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and entrectinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
eriBULin: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Erythromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and erythromycin in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and erythromycin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Escitalopram: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and escitalopram may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Esmolol: (Moderate) Monitor heart rate if concomitant use of etrasimod and a beta-blocker is necessary. Transient decreases in heart rate and AV conduction delays have been observed with etrasimod therapy which may increase the risk for bradycardia. The risk for harm may be greatest if a beta-blocker is added to a stable etrasimod regimen.
Fedratinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and fedratinib in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and fedratinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and fexinidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Fingolimod: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and fingolimod may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Flecainide: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and flecainide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Fluconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and fluconazole due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and fluconazole is a moderate CYP2C9 and moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with a moderate CYP2C9 and moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased etrasimod overall exposure by 84%. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and fluoxetine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
fluPHENAZine: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of etrasimod and fluphenazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
fluvoxaMINE: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and fluvoxamine in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and fluvoxamine is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Fosamprenavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and fosamprenavir in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and fosamprenavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Foscarnet: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and foscarnet increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Fosfomycin (injectable): (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and etrasimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Fosfomycin: (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and etrasimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Fostemsavir: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and fostemsavir may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Gemfibrozil: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and gemfibrozil in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP2C8 substrate and gemfibrozil is a strong CYP2C8 inhibitor.
Gemifloxacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and gemifloxacin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Gemtuzumab Ozogamicin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and gemtuzumab ozogamicin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Gepirone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and etrasimod may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Gepotidacin: (Major) Concomitant use of gepotidacin and etrasimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Gilteritinib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and gilteritinib may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Givinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of givinostat and etrasimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval. The degree of QT prolongation associated with givinostat is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 5 times the maximum recommended dose.
Glasdegib: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and glasdegib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Goserelin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., goserelin) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Granisetron: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and granisetron may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Grapefruit juice: (Major) Advise patients to avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice during etrasimod treatment due to the risk of increased etrasimod exposure and adverse reactions. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and grapefruit juice is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A inhibitor.
Haemophilus influenzae type b Conjugate Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as etrasimod, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated non-live vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Halogenated Anesthetics: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Haloperidol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and haloperidol may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The intravenous route may carry a higher risk for haloperidol-induced QT/QTc prolongation than other routes of administration. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Hepatitis A Vaccine, Inactivated: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as etrasimod, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated non-live vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Hepatitis A Vaccine, Inactivated; Hepatitis B Vaccine, Recombinant: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as etrasimod, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated non-live vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Hepatitis B Vaccine, Recombinant: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as etrasimod, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated non-live vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Histrelin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., histrelin) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Human Papillomavirus 9-Valent Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as etrasimod, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated non-live vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Hydroxychloroquine: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and hydroxychloroquine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
hydrOXYzine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and hydroxyzine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Ibutilide: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and ibutilide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Idelalisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and idelalisib in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and idelalisib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Iloperidone: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and iloperidone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Imatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and imatinib in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and imatinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Influenza Virus Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as etrasimod, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated non-live vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Inotuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and inotuzumab ozogamicin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Intranasal Influenza Vaccine: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive agents, such as etrasimod, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before etrasimod therapy or wait until at least 5 weeks after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence. (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as etrasimod, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated non-live vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Isavuconazonium: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and isavuconazonium in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and isavuconazonium is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Isoflurane: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Itraconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and itraconazole in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and itraconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Ivosidenib: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and ivosidenib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Japanese Encephalitis Virus Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as etrasimod, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated non-live vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Ketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Ketoconazole is contraindicated with other medications that may cause QT/QTc interval prolongation, such as etrasimod. Additionally, use may increase etrasimod exposure and the risk for etrasimod-related adverse effects especially in patients who are CYP2C9 poor metabolizers. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Labetalol: (Moderate) Monitor heart rate if concomitant use of etrasimod and a beta-blocker is necessary. Transient decreases in heart rate and AV conduction delays have been observed with etrasimod therapy which may increase the risk for bradycardia. The risk for harm may be greatest if a beta-blocker is added to a stable etrasimod regimen.
Landiolol: (Moderate) Monitor heart rate if concomitant use of etrasimod and a beta-blocker is necessary. Transient decreases in heart rate and AV conduction delays have been observed with etrasimod therapy which may increase the risk for bradycardia. The risk for harm may be greatest if a beta-blocker is added to a stable etrasimod regimen.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and clarithromycin in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Lapatinib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and lapatinib may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and oral lefamulin in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and oral lefamulin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Leflunomide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and leflunomide in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP2C8 substrate and leflunomide is a moderate CYP2C8 inhibitor.
Lenacapavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and lenacapavir in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Lenvatinib: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and lenvatinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Letermovir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and letermovir in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and letermovir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. When letermovir is used with cyclosporine, the combination is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Leuprolide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., leuprolide) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Levobunolol: (Moderate) Monitor heart rate if concomitant use of etrasimod and a beta-blocker is necessary. Transient decreases in heart rate and AV conduction delays have been observed with etrasimod therapy which may increase the risk for bradycardia. The risk for harm may be greatest if a beta-blocker is added to a stable etrasimod regimen.
levoFLOXacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and levofloxacin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Levoketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Ketoconazole is contraindicated with other medications that may cause QT/QTc interval prolongation, such as etrasimod. Additionally, use may increase etrasimod exposure and the risk for etrasimod-related adverse effects especially in patients who are CYP2C9 poor metabolizers. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Lithium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and lithium may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Live Vaccines: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive agents, such as etrasimod, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before etrasimod therapy or wait until at least 5 weeks after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Lofexidine: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and lofexidine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and lonafarnib in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Loperamide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and loperamide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and loperamide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and ritonavir in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and lopinavir; ritonavir increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Macimorelin: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and macimorelin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Mavorixafor: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and etrasimod may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Measles Virus; Mumps Virus; Rubella Virus; Varicella Virus Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive agents, such as etrasimod, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before etrasimod therapy or wait until at least 5 weeks after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Measles/Mumps/Rubella Vaccines, MMR: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive agents, such as etrasimod, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before etrasimod therapy or wait until at least 5 weeks after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Mefloquine: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of etrasimod and mefloquine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Meningococcal Group B (MenB-4C) Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as etrasimod, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated non-live vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Meningococcal Group B (MenB-FHbp) Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as etrasimod, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated non-live vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Meningococcal Groups A, B, C, W, and Y Vaccine (5 valent): (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as etrasimod, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated non-live vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Meningococcal Groups A, C, W, and Y Vaccine (4 valent): (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as etrasimod, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated non-live vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Methadone: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and methadone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Metoprolol: (Moderate) Monitor heart rate if concomitant use of etrasimod and a beta-blocker is necessary. Transient decreases in heart rate and AV conduction delays have been observed with etrasimod therapy which may increase the risk for bradycardia. The risk for harm may be greatest if a beta-blocker is added to a stable etrasimod regimen.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor heart rate if concomitant use of etrasimod and a beta-blocker is necessary. Transient decreases in heart rate and AV conduction delays have been observed with etrasimod therapy which may increase the risk for bradycardia. The risk for harm may be greatest if a beta-blocker is added to a stable etrasimod regimen.
metroNIDAZOLE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and metronidazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Midostaurin: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and midostaurin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and mifepristone due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Etrasimod is a CYP2C8, CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and mifepristone is a CYP2C8, CYP2C9, and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Mirtazapine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and mirtazapine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Mobocertinib: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and mobocertinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Moxifloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and moxifloxacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Nadolol: (Moderate) Monitor heart rate if concomitant use of etrasimod and a beta-blocker is necessary. Transient decreases in heart rate and AV conduction delays have been observed with etrasimod therapy which may increase the risk for bradycardia. The risk for harm may be greatest if a beta-blocker is added to a stable etrasimod regimen.
Nebivolol: (Moderate) Monitor heart rate if concomitant use of etrasimod and a beta-blocker is necessary. Transient decreases in heart rate and AV conduction delays have been observed with etrasimod therapy which may increase the risk for bradycardia. The risk for harm may be greatest if a beta-blocker is added to a stable etrasimod regimen.
Nefazodone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and nefazodone in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and nefazodone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Nelfinavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and nelfinavir in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and nelfinavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Netupitant, Fosnetupitant; Palonosetron: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and netupitant in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and netupitant is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Nilotinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and nilotinib in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and nilotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and ritonavir in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Nirogacestat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and nirogacestat in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and nirogacestat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Non-Live Vaccines: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as etrasimod, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated non-live vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Ofloxacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and ofloxacin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and olanzapine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and fluoxetine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval. (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and olanzapine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and olanzapine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Ondansetron: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and ondansetron increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Do not exceed 16 mg of IV ondansetron in a single dose; the degree of QT prolongation associated with ondansetron significantly increases above this dose. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Osilodrostat: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and osilodrostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Osimertinib: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and osimertinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Oxaliplatin: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and oxaliplatin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Ozanimod: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and ozanimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ozanimod and etrasimod have a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Pacritinib: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and pacritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Paliperidone: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and paliperidone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Panobinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and panobinostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Pasireotide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and pasireotide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and pazopanib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Pentamidine: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and systemic pentamidine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Perphenazine: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of etrasimod and perphenazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of etrasimod and perphenazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Pimavanserin: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and pimavanserin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Pimozide: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and pimozide due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Pindolol: (Moderate) Monitor heart rate if concomitant use of etrasimod and a beta-blocker is necessary. Transient decreases in heart rate and AV conduction delays have been observed with etrasimod therapy which may increase the risk for bradycardia. The risk for harm may be greatest if a beta-blocker is added to a stable etrasimod regimen.
Pirtobrutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and pirtobrutinib in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP2C8 substrate and pirtobrutinib is a moderate CYP2C8 inhibitor.
Pitolisant: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and pitolisant increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Pneumococcal 15-valent Conjugate Vaccine, PCV15: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as etrasimod, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated non-live vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Pneumococcal 20-valent Conjugate Vaccine, PCV20: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as etrasimod, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated non-live vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Pneumococcal 21-valent Conjugate Vaccine, PCV21: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as etrasimod, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated non-live vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Pneumococcal 23-valent Polysaccharide Vaccine, PPSV23: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as etrasimod, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated non-live vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Ponesimod: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and ponesimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ponesimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Posaconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and posaconazole in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and posaconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Primaquine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of primaquine and etrasimod may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Procainamide: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and procainamide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Prochlorperazine: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of etrasimod and prochlorperazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and promethazine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and promethazine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and promethazine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Propafenone: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and propafenone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Monitor heart rate if concomitant use of etrasimod and a beta-blocker is necessary. Transient decreases in heart rate and AV conduction delays have been observed with etrasimod therapy which may increase the risk for bradycardia. The risk for harm may be greatest if a beta-blocker is added to a stable etrasimod regimen.
QUEtiapine: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and quetiapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
quiNIDine: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and quinidine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
quiNINE: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and quinine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Quizartinib: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and quizartinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Rabies Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as etrasimod, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated non-live vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Ranolazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and ranolazine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Relacorilant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and relacorilant in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Relugolix: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Respiratory Syncytial Virus Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as etrasimod, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated non-live vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Revumenib: (Major) Concomitant use of revumenib and etrasimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Ribociclib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and ribociclib in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and ribociclib in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and rifampin. Concurrent use has been observed to decrease etrasimod overall exposure by 49% which may reduce its efficacy. Etrasimod is a CYP2C8, CYP2C9, and CYP3A substrate and rifampin is a CYP2C8, CYP2C9, and CYP3A inducer.
Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and rilpivirine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Rilzabrutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and rilzabrutinib in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and risperidone may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Ritlecitinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and ritlecitinib in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and ritonavir in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
romiDEPsin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and romidepsin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Rotavirus Vaccine: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive agents, such as etrasimod, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before etrasimod therapy or wait until at least 5 weeks after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Saquinavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and saquinavir in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use may also increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and saquinavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) vaccines: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) mRNA Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) Recombinant Spike Protein Nanoparticle Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
Selpercatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and selpercatinib in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use may also increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP2C8 substrate and selpercatinib is a moderate CYP2C8 inhibitor. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Sertraline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and sertraline may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with sertraline is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Sevoflurane: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Siponimod: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and siponimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Smallpox and Monkeypox Vaccine, Live, Nonreplicating: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive agents, such as etrasimod, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before etrasimod therapy or wait until at least 5 weeks after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Smallpox and Mpox (Vaccinia) Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive agents, such as etrasimod, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before etrasimod therapy or wait until at least 5 weeks after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Solifenacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and solifenacin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
SORAfenib: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and sorafenib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Sotalol: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and sotalol increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and bradycardia. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval. The risk for clinically relevant bradycardia and bradycardia-related harm may be greatest if a beta-blocker is added to a stable etrasimod regimen.
Sulfamethoxazole; Trimethoprim, SMX-TMP, Cotrimoxazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and sulfamethoxazole in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP2C8 substrate and sulfamethoxazole is a moderate CYP2C8 inhibitor.
SUNItinib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and sunitinib may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Tacrolimus: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and tacrolimus may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Taletrectinib: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and etrasimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Tamoxifen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and tamoxifen may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Telavancin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and telavancin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Teriflunomide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and teriflunomide in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP2C8 substrate and teriflunomide is a moderate CYP2C8 inhibitor.
Tetrabenazine: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and tetrabenazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Thioridazine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and thioridazine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Tick-Borne Encephalitis Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as etrasimod, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated non-live vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Timolol: (Moderate) Monitor heart rate if concomitant use of etrasimod and a beta-blocker is necessary. Transient decreases in heart rate and AV conduction delays have been observed with etrasimod therapy which may increase the risk for bradycardia. The risk for harm may be greatest if a beta-blocker is added to a stable etrasimod regimen.
Tipranavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and tipranavir in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and tipranavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Tolterodine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and tolterodine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The risk for tolterodine-associated QT/QTc prolongation may be increased in poor CYP2D6 metabolizers. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Toremifene: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and toremifene increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and verapamil in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for bradycardia. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Transient decreases in heart rate and AV conduction delays have been observed with etrasimod therapy which may increase the risk for bradycardia. The risk for harm may be greatest if a calcium channel blocker is added to a stable etrasimod regimen.
traZODone: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and trazodone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Triclabendazole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and triclabendazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Trifluoperazine: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of etrasimod and trifluoperazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Triptorelin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., triptorelin) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Tucatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and tucatinib in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Typhoid Vaccine: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive agents, such as etrasimod, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before etrasimod therapy or wait until at least 5 weeks after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Vandetanib: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and vandetanib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Vardenafil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and vardenafil may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Varicella Virus Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive agents, such as etrasimod, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before etrasimod therapy or wait until at least 5 weeks after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Vemurafenib: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and vemurafenib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Venlafaxine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and venlafaxine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Vepdegestrant: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and etrasimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Verapamil: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and verapamil in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for bradycardia. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Transient decreases in heart rate and AV conduction delays have been observed with etrasimod therapy which may increase the risk for bradycardia. The risk for harm may be greatest if a calcium channel blocker is added to a stable etrasimod regimen.
Voclosporin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and voclosporin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with voclosporin is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and clarithromycin in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Voriconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and voriconazole in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use may also increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and voriconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Vorinostat: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and vorinostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Voxelotor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of etrasimod and voxelotor in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers due to the risk for increased etrasimod exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Yellow Fever Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive agents, such as etrasimod, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before etrasimod therapy or wait until at least 5 weeks after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Zidesamtinib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and etrasimod may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Ziftomenib: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and etrasimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Ziprasidone: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and ziprasidone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    cystitis, infection, meningitis
    General Information
    Etrasimod can increase the susceptibility to infections and other sphingosine 1-phospate (S1P) receptor modulators have been associated with life-threatening and rare fatal infections. Etrasimod causes a mean reduction in peripheral blood lymphocyte count to approximately 45% of baseline values at week 52 because of reversible sequestration of lymphocytes in lymphoid tissues. Pharmacodynamics data indicates there is a dose-dependent reduction in blood lymphocyte counts. During clinical trials, 0.6% to 5.5% of patients who received etrasimod experienced lymphocyte counts less than 0.2 x 109/L and did not require therapy discontinuation; peripheral blood absolute lymphocyte counts returned to normal range in 90% of subjects within 4 to 5 weeks of stopping therapy. During clinical studies, the overall rate of infections in patients treated with etrasimod was 14% to 24.9% compared to 11.8% to 22.2% in patients who received placebo. The most common infections reported were urinary tract infections (including cystitis and genitourinary tract infection) and herpes viral infections. During clinical trials of patients with ulcerative colitis, urinary tract infections (including cystitis and genitourinary tract infection) were reported in 3% of patients treated with etrasimod. Herpes simplex encephalitis, varicella zoster meningitis, and localized herpes viral infections have been reported with S1P receptor modulators. During clinical trials, 0.7% of patients treated for ulcerative colitis with etrasimod reported herpes zoster, compared to no patients who received placebo. Herpes viral infection (herpes zoster, oral herpes, and herpes simplex) was reported in 2% of patients treated with etrasimod compared to 1% of patients receiving placebo. Cases of fatal cryptococcal meningitis (CM) and disseminated cryptococcal infections have been reported with S1P receptor modulator use. If a cryptococcal infection is suspected, appropriate therapy should be initiated and etrasimod should be withheld until infection has resolved. Switching to etrasimod from drugs with prolong immune effects can cause unintended additive immunosuppression, consider the half life and mode of action of these drugs prior to etrasimod initiation.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cystitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      meningitis
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    AV block, bradycardia, hypertension
    General Information
    Initiation of etrasimod may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular (AV) conduction delays. Bradycardia was reported on the day of treatment initiation in 1% to 2.9% of patients who received etrasimod compared to none of the patients who received placebo. After day 1, the incidence of bradycardia was 0.3%. First or second degree Mobitz type I AV block were observed in 0.7% to 0.8% of patients treated with etrasimod compared to none of the patients who received placebo. Hypertension was reported in 3% of patients who received etrasimod during clinical trials compared to 1% in patients who received placebo. Patients receiving etrasimod had an average increase of approximately 1 to 4 mm Hg in systolic blood pressure and approximately 1 to 2 mm Hg in diastolic blood pressure compared to less than 1 mm Hg to 1.5 mm Hg in patients receiving placebo. The increase was first detected after 2 weeks of treatment and remained within the specified average range of BP increases throughout treatment.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      AV block
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      bradycardia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    cholestasis, elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatotoxicity, hyperbilirubinemia, jaundice
    General Information
    Elevated hepatic enzymes were reported in 5% to 6% of etrasimod treated patients during clinical trials. Elevations of ALT to 3-fold the upper limit of normal (ULN) or more occurred in 2.5% to 4.5% of patients treated with etrasimod compared to 0.5% to 2.1% of patients who received placebo during clinical trials. Increases in AST, blood alkaline phosphatase, GGT, hepatic enzymes, hyperbilirubinemia were also observed during pooled clinical trials. Cholestasis was also reported during etrasimod clinical trials. Etrasimod is not recommended for use in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C). Obtain serum transaminases (ALT and AST) and total bilirubin prior to treatment initiation (within 6 months). Monitor patients for signs of hepatotoxicity; those with preexisting severe hepatic disease may be at greater risk of adverse reactions. Obtain liver transaminase and bilirubin concentrations in any patients who report symptoms that may indicate liver injury, such as new or worsening fatigue, anorexia, right upper abdominal discomfort, dark urine, or jaundice. Discontinue etrasimod if significant hepatic injury is confirmed.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cholestasis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperbilirubinemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      jaundice
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hepatotoxicity
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    macular edema, visual impairment
    General Information
    An increased risk of macular edema has been associated with sphingosine 1-phophate receptor modulator treatment. During a clinical study, decreased visual acuity or visual impairment was reported in 2.6% of patients treated with etrasimod compared to none of the patients who received placebo. Obtain an ophthalmologic evaluation of the fundus, including the macula, near the start of treatment in all patients, periodically during treatment, and at any time after a patient reports visual disturbance while on etrasimod therapy. Consider discontinuing etrasimod if macular edema is suspected. Macular edema over an extended period of time (i.e., 6 months) can lead to permanent visual loss.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      macular edema
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      visual impairment
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    dyspnea
    General Information
    Dyspnea and respiratory effects have been reported with other sphingosine 1-phosphate receptor modulators that resulted in treatment discontinuation. Reductions in absolute forced expiratory volume over 1 second (FEV1) were seen patients as early as 3 months after etrasimod initiation. During clinical trials, the decline in absolute FEV1 from baseline in patients treated with etrasimod compared to patients who received placebo was 79 mL (95% CI: -152, -5) at 3 months. Spirometric evaluation of respiratory function should be performed during therapy with etrasimod if clinically indicated. There is insufficient information to determine the reversibility of the decrease in FEV1 after drug discontinuation or whether changes are progressive with continued use.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    encephalopathy, immune reconstitution syndrome, progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy
    General Information
    Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) has been reported in patients treated for multiple sclerosis with other sphingosine 1-phosphate receptor (S1P) modulators. Risk factors in those patients included, immunocompromised patients and polytherapy with immunosuppressants. MRI findings may be apparent before clinical signs or symptoms. If PML is suspected, etrasimod treatment should be suspended until PML has been excluded by appropriate diagnotic evaluation. Discontinue etrasimod if PML is confirmed. Longer treatment duration with S1P receptor modulators increases the risk of PML in patients with multiple sclerosis. Most cases of PML occurred in patients treated with S1P receptor modulators for at least 18 months. Cases of immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome (IRIS) or immune reconstitution syndrome have been reported in patients treated with other S1P receptor modulators who developed PML and subsequently discontinued treatment. PML-associated IRIS may lead to rapid onset of serious neurological complications or death, and is often associated with characteristic changes on MRI. PML-associated IRIS onset occurred within a few months following S1P receptor modulator discontinuation. Monitor patients and appropriately treat any inflammation associated with IRIS. Rare cases of posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome (PRES) have been reported in patients receiving S1P receptor modulators. Symptoms reported included sudden onset of severe headache, altered mental status, visual disturbances, and seizure. The presence of symptoms should prompt a complete physical and neurological examination and MRI should be considered. Symptoms of PRES are usually reversible but may evolve into ischemic stroke or cerebral hemorrhage. A delay in diagnosis and treatment may lead to permanent neurological sequelae. If PRES is suspected, discontinue etrasimod and perform a clinical evaluation.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      encephalopathy
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      immune reconstitution syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    dizziness, headache, migraine, nausea
    General Information
    Headache (migraine headache, sinus headache, and tension headache) was reported in 6% to 9% of patients treated with etrasimod compared to 4% to 5% of patients treated with placebo. During clinical trials, dizziness was reported in 5% of patients treated with etrasimod compared to 2% of patients treated with placebo. Patients also reported dizziness exertional and dizziness postural while being treated with etrasimod. Nausea was reported in 3% to 4% of patients treated with etrasimod compared to 1% to 2% of patients treated with placebo.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      migraine
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    arthralgia
    General Information
    During clinical trials, arthralgia was reported in 4% of patients treated with etrasimod compared to 2% of patients treated with placebo.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hypercholesterolemia
    General Information
    During clinical trails, hypercholesterolemia or increased blood cholesterol was reported in 3% of patients treated with etrasimod compared to none of the patients treated with placebo.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypercholesterolemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    Merkel cell carcinoma, new primary malignancy, skin cancer
    General Information
    Etrasimod may increase the risk for a new primary malignancy, including skin cancer. Skin cancer, including melanoma, basal cell carcinoma (BCC), and squamous cell carcinoma (SCC), were reported during clinical trials in patients receiving other sphingosine 1-phosphate receptor (S1P) modulators. Kaposi's sarcoma and Merkel cell carcinoma have been reported during postmarketing experience with S1P receptor modulators. Perform a baseline skin examination before or shortly after etrasimod initiation and periodically during treatment for all patients, particularly for those with risk factors for skin cancer. Providers and patients are advised to monitor for suspicious skin lesions and promptly evaluate any lesion that occurs. Patients are advised to follow skin protection practices, such as using protective clothing and appropriate sunscreens. Exposure to sunlight and ultraviolet (UV) light should be limited. Concomitant phototherapy with UV-B radiation or PUVA-photochemotherapy is not recommended.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      Merkel cell carcinoma
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      skin cancer
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      new primary malignancy
      Severity
      Severe

Description
  Text
  Etrasimod is an oral sphingosine 1-phosphate receptor modulator. It is indicated for moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis (UC) in adults. The therapeutic effect of etrasimod in UC is unclear; it is speculated that etrasimod reduces lymphocyte migration into the intestines. The efficacy of etrasimod for the treatment of adults with moderately to severely active UC was established in 2 randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials. In ELEVATE UC 52, 27% of subjects receiving etrasimod achieved clinical remission vs. 7% of those receiving placebo at week 12 (p = 0.001), and remission was achieved by 32% of etrasimod recipients at week 52 vs. only 7% with placebo (p = 0.001). In ELEVATE UC 12, clinical remission was achieved among 26% of adults receiving etrasimod compared to 15% of placebo recipients (p less than 0.05). All key secondary efficacy endpoints were met at week 12, including endoscopic improvement and mucosal healing. Guidelines recommend etrasimod as an advanced therapy for induction and maintenance of UC remission. The American Gastroenterological Association (AGA) considers etrasimod a higher-efficacy option in advanced-therapy-naive individuals, whereas its relative positioning is lower after prior advanced-therapy exposure. Etrasimod may be particularly useful for individuals with UC who prefer an oral alternative to biologic therapy, provided class-specific safety considerations are addressed. Individuals with certain cardiac conditions or with severe hepatic impairment should not receive etrasimod. The FDA approved etrasimod in October 2023.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Etrasimod is a sphingosine 1-phosphate (S1P) receptor modulator that binds with high affinity to S1P receptors 1, 4, and 5 (SIP1,4,5). Etrasimod has minimal activity on SIP3 (25-fold lower than Cmax at the recommended dose) and no activity on SIP2. Etrasimod partially and reversibly blocks the capacity of lymphocytes to egress from lymph nodes, reducing the number of lymphocytes in peripheral blood. The mechanism by which etrasimod exerts therapeutic effects in ulcerative colitis is unknown but may involve the reduction of lymphocyte migration into the intestine.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    The mean steady state Cmax of etrasimod following oral administration was 113 (SD= 27.5) nanograms/mL. At the reccommended dosage, the area under the time concentration curve at the dosing interval (AUCtau) was 2162 (SD= 488) nanograms*hour/mL. The Cmax and AUC of etrasimod are approximately dose proportional from 0.7 mg to 2 mg (0.35 times up to the reccommended dosage). Steady state for etrasimod was reached within 7 days with an accumulation of approximately 2 to 3-fold compared to the first dose. The median Tmax of etrasimod was approximately 4 hours (range 2 to 8 hours) after oral administration. Clinically significant differences were not seen in the pharmacokinetics of etrasimod and coadministration with a high fat meal.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Hepatic impairment has shown to increase etrasimod AUC when compared with subjects with normal liver function. In patients with mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh A), moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B), and severe haptic impairment (Child-Pugh-C), etrasimod AUC increased by 13%, 29%, and 57%, respectively. Clinically significant differences in unbound etrasimod AUC was not found.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Severe renal impairment (eGFR less than 29 mL/minute) did not affect the pharmacokinetics of etrasimod.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    There is no clinical differences in the pharmacokinetics of etrasimod in adults over 65 years with ulcerative colitis.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    Gender did not affect the pharmacokinetics of etrasimod.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    Ethnicity did not affect the pharmacokinetics of etrasimod.
    Name
    Obesity
    Description
    Body weight did not affect the pharmacokinetics of etrasimod.
    Name
    Other
    Description
    CYP2C9 poor metabolizers
CYP2C9 poor metabolizers may have decreased clearance of etrasimod when it is used concomitantly with moderate to strong inhibitors of CYP2C8 or CYP3A4. Etrasimod is not recommended in individuals who are CYP2C9 poor metabolizers and who are concomitantly taking moderate to strong inhibitors of CYP2C8 or CYP3A4. CYP2C9 intermediate metabolizers may also have decreased clearance of etrasimod when used concomitantly with moderate to strong inhibitors of CYP2C8 or CYP3A4; however, the effect of etrasimod on exposure to CYP2C9 intermediate metabolizers with concomitant CYP2C8 or CYP3A4 inhibitors is not known.
  Text
  Etrasimod is administered orally. The mean apparent volume of distribution of etrasimod is 66 (SD=24) L and plasma protein binding is 97.9%. Etrasimod is metabolized by multiple enzymes to remain mostly unchanged as it is circulated in plasma. After oral administration of a radioactive dose, approximately 82% of radioactive etrasimod was recovered in feces and 5% of the radioactive dose was recovered in urine within 336 hours. Approximately 11% of the radioactive dose was recovered as unchanged etrasimod in the feces and none was excreted unchanged in urine. The mean plasma elimination half-life of etrasimod is 30 hours with an apparent steady-state oral clearance of 1 L/hour after oral administration.
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP3A4, CYP2C19, CYP2J2
Etrasimod is metabolized through oxidation and dehydrogenation mediated primarily by CYP2C8, CYP2C9, and CYP3A4, with minor contribution by CYP2C19, CYP2J2. Etrasimod also undergoes conjugation primarily mediated by UGTs, with minor contribution by sulfotransferases. The main component after metabolism is unchanged etrasimod found in circulating plasma. Based on in vitro studies, etrasimod is not an inhibitor of CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, and CYP3A4, nor an inducer of CYP1A2, CYP2B6, and CYP3A4 at clinically relevant concentrations. Etrasimod is not an inhibitor of UGT1A3, UGT1A4, UGT1A9, UGT2B7, or UGT2B17 in vitro. Etrasimod is not a substrate or an inhibitor of P-gp, BCRP, BSEP, OATP1B1, OATP1B3, OAT1, OAT3, OCT1, OCT2, MATE1, and MATE2-K transporters.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Tablets
Swallow the tablets whole.
May administer with or without food.
Missed doses: If a dose is missed, take the missed dose at the next scheduled time. Do not take double or extra doses.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    2 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    2 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class A) or moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class B): No dosage adjustments are needed.
Severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C): Use not recommended.
  Renal Impairment
  No dosage adjustments are needed.
