=== Dexbrompheniramine (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5352)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Dexbrompheniramine is an oral first-generation sedating antihistamine (H1-blocker) of the propylamine class.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 12 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): anxiety, confusion, dizziness, drowsiness, euphoria, excitability, fatigue, hallucinations, headache, insomnia, irritability, neuritis, restlessness, seizures, tremor, pyrosis (heartburn), agranulocytosis, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia, anaphylactic shock, hyperhidrosis, photosensitivity, rash, skin irritation, urticaria, hypotension, palpitations, sinus tachycardia, dysuria, polyuria

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: The anticholinergic activity of first-generation H1-antagonists may result in thickened bronchial secretions in the respiratory tract, thereby aggravating COPD. This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

Brand Names
  - ALA-HIST IR
  - PediaVent

Dosage Forms
  - Acticon Cold & Allergy 1mg-30mg/5mL Liquid
  - Acticon Cold & Allergy 2mg-60mg Tablet
  - ACTICON Cold & Allergy 2mg-60mg/5mL Solution (Cherry)
  - ACTICON PEDIATRIC Cold & Allergy 1mg-30mg/5mL Solution (Cherry)
  - ALA-HIST IR 2mg Tablet
  - ALA-HIST PE 2mg-10mg Tablet
  - ALAHIST CF 2mg-20mg-10mg Tablet
  - ALAHIST DM 2mg-15mg-7.5mg/5mL Liquid (Strawberry)
  - ALAHIST PE 2mg-7-5mg Tablet
  - BranTussin DM 2mg-15mg-7.5mg/5mL Solution (Strawberry)
  - Chlo Tuss 12.5mg-1mg-5mg/5ml Liquid
  - Conex Cold & Allergy 1mg-30mg/5mL Solution
  - Conex Cold & Allergy 2mg-60mg Tablet
  - Dallergy 1mg-5mg Tablet
  - Dallergy 1mg-5mg/5mL Syrup
  - DURAHIST 2mg-60mg Tablet
  - Duratuss DM 1mg-30mg-10mg/5mL Solution (Raspberry Bubblegum)
  - M-End DMX  0.667mg-10mg-20mg/5ml Liquid
  - POLYTUSSIN DM 2mg-15mg-7.5mg/5mL Solution
  - SUPRESS A 1mg-10mg-5mg/1mL Pediatric Drops (Grape)
  - WesTussin DM NF  2mg-15mg-7.5mg/5ml Solution (Strawberry)

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        2 mg PO every 4 to 6 hours as needed. Max: 12 mg/day.
        Heading
        Children and Adolescents 12 to 17 years
        Dosage Description
        2 mg PO every 4 to 6 hours as needed. Max: 12 mg/day.
        Heading
        Children 6 to 11 years
        Dosage Description
        1 mg PO every 4 to 6 hours as needed. Max: 6 mg/day.
    Heading
    For the treatment of rhinorrhea, sneezing, itching of the nose or throat, and allergic conjunctivitis associated with perennial or seasonal allergic rhinitis

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
    General Information
    Use sedating antihistamines such as dexbrompheniramine with caution in people with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), including emphysema or chronic bronchitis. The anticholinergic activity of first-generation H1-antagonists may result in thickened bronchial secretions in the respiratory tract, thereby aggravating COPD.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Dexbrompheniramine is a first-generation antihistamine of the propylamine class. Allergies to one antihistamine can sometimes lead to cross-reactivity with other chemically-related antihistamines.
    Headline
    glaucoma
    General Information
    Dexbrompheniramine should be used with caution in people with glaucoma, as an increase in intraocular pressure may occur from the anticholinergic actions of the medication. Older adults are more susceptible to the anticholinergic effects of dexbrompheniramine, including possible precipitation of undiagnosed glaucoma.
    Headline
    prostatic hypertrophy
    General Information
    Due to the anticholinergic effects which may aggravate urinary retention, first-generation antihistamines, such as dexbrompheniramine, should be used with caution in people with trouble urinating due to prostatic hypertrophy.
    Headline
    activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery
    General Information
    Dexbrompheniramine can cause drowsiness. Advise individuals receiving dexbrompheniramine to avoid driving or operating machinery and activities requiring coordination and concentration until the effects of the drug are known. Additive drowsiness may be seen during coadministration with other CNS depressants, including ethanol ingestion.
    Headline
    children, infants, neonates
    General Information
    Due to the risk for serious adverse reactions, the FDA recommends against administration of over the counter (OTC) cough and cold products to neonates, infants and children younger than 2 years of age. When administering OTC medications to older pediatric patients, they advise caregivers to read product labels carefully, use caution when administering multiple products to avoid duplication of ingredients, and use only measuring devices specifically designed for use with medications. Care teams should thoroughly assess the use of similar products, both prescription and nonprescription, to avoid duplication of therapy and the potential for inadvertent overdose.
    Headline
    geriatric
    General Information
    The Beers Criteria identifies first-generation antihistamines as potentially inappropriate medications (PIMs) for geriatric adults, recommending their avoidance due to their high anticholinergic properties, decreased clearance in older age, the development of tolerance when used as sleep aids, and an increased risk of anticholinergic effects and toxicity compared to younger individuals. These medications should particularly be avoided in patients with dementia or cognitive impairment (due to adverse CNS effects), those at high risk for delirium (which can worsen or trigger new-onset delirium), and men with lower urinary tract symptoms or benign prostatic hyperplasia (due to risks of urinary retention or hesitancy).
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Use of dexbrompheniramine during pregnancy is usually not recommended due to the availability of alternatives with more data. Loratadine and oral cetirizine are acceptable antihistamine alternatives based on their excellent safety data and recommendation in multiple guidelines for use during pregnancy. Non-pharmacologic methods (e.g., fluids, rest) are recommended to be tried first for symptomatic relief of rhinitis or allergies during pregnancy. Pregnant patients should see their health care professional for a proper diagnosis and for treatment recommendations.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use dexbrompheniramine with caution during breast-feeding. Small, occasional doses of dexbrompheniramine would not be expected to cause adverse effects in breastfed infants as insignificant amounts of dexbrompheniramine are secreted in the breast milk. Larger doses or more prolonged use may cause effects in the infant or decrease the milk supply. Side effects in breast-feeding infants such as irritability, disturbed sleeping patterns, drowsiness, hyperexcitability, and excessive crying have been reported in a number of cases.   Antihistamines can lower basal prolactin secretion and may interfere with the establishment of lactation.  Consider treatment alternatives to dexbrompheniramine. Guidelines recommend loratadine or cetirizine at the lowest dose as preferred antihistamines in breast-feeding women because they are safer with only low levels found in breast milk.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Use of dexbrompheniramine during pregnancy is usually not recommended due to the availability of alternatives with more data. Loratadine and oral cetirizine are acceptable antihistamine alternatives based on their excellent safety data and recommendation in multiple guidelines for use during pregnancy. Non-pharmacologic methods (e.g., fluids, rest) are recommended to be tried first for symptomatic relief of rhinitis or allergies during pregnancy. Pregnant patients should see their health care professional for a proper diagnosis and for treatment recommendations.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use dexbrompheniramine with caution during breast-feeding. Small, occasional doses of dexbrompheniramine would not be expected to cause adverse effects in breastfed infants as insignificant amounts of dexbrompheniramine are secreted in the breast milk. Larger doses or more prolonged use may cause effects in the infant or decrease the milk supply. Side effects in breast-feeding infants such as irritability, disturbed sleeping patterns, drowsiness, hyperexcitability, and excessive crying have been reported in a number of cases.   Antihistamines can lower basal prolactin secretion and may interfere with the establishment of lactation.  Consider treatment alternatives to dexbrompheniramine. Guidelines recommend loratadine or cetirizine at the lowest dose as preferred antihistamines in breast-feeding women because they are safer with only low levels found in breast milk.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with dexbrompheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with dexbrompheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with dexbrompheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with dexbrompheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with dexbrompheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with dexbrompheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with dexbrompheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with dexbrompheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with dexbrompheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with dexbrompheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Alosetron: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like sedating H1 blockers, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
ALPRAZolam: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Amantadine: (Moderate) Medications with significant anticholinergic activity may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Amivantamab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Amoxapine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when amoxapine is used concomitantly with drugs are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature Additive sedation may also occur.
Amphetamine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine Salts: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like sedating H1-blockers and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate, a significant CNS depressant. Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness, may occur if carisoprodol is taken with sedating H1-blockers. Utilize appropriate caution if carisoprodol is coadministered with another CNS depressant. (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with dexbrompheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with dexbrompheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with dexbrompheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with dexbrompheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Atezolizumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Atropine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when diphenoxylate/difenoxin is combined with other CNS depressants. Diphenoxylate/difenoxin decreases GI motility. Other drugs that also decrease GI motility, such as sedating H1 blockers, may produce additive effects with diphenoxylate/difenoxin if used concomitantly. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Azelastine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of azelastine and sedating H1-blockers due to risk for additive CNS depression.
Azelastine; Fluticasone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of azelastine and sedating H1-blockers due to risk for additive CNS depression.
Baclofen: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating H1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including skeletal muscle relaxants, such as baclofen.
Belladonna; Opium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with dexbrompheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with dexbrompheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and belladonna use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Benzgalantamine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and galantamine should be avoided if possible. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of galantamine.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with dexbrompheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with dexbrompheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Benzodiazepines: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and hyoscyamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Benzphetamine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Benztropine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and benztropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and glycopyrrolate use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with dexbrompheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with dexbrompheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with dexbrompheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with dexbrompheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Butorphanol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of butorphanol with sedating H1-blockers can potentiate the effects of butorphanol on CNS and/or respiratory depression. Use together with caution. If a CNS depressant needs to be used with butorphanol, use the smallest effective dose and the longest dosing frequency of butorphanol.
Cannabidiol: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of cannabidiol and sedating H1-blockers. CNS depressants can potentiate the effects of cannabidiol.
Capsaicin; Metaxalone: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent.
Carbidopa; Levodopa; Entacapone: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Carisoprodol: (Moderate) Carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate, a significant CNS depressant. Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness, may occur if carisoprodol is taken with sedating H1-blockers. Utilize appropriate caution if carisoprodol is coadministered with another CNS depressant.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with dexbrompheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with dexbrompheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Cenobamate: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of cenobamate and sedating H1-blockers. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Cetirizine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
chlordiazePOXIDE: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with dexbrompheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with dexbrompheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with dexbrompheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with dexbrompheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
chlorproMAZINE: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and sedative effects may be seen when chlorpromazine is used with first generation antihistamines, such as dexbrompheniramine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription cough and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines.
Chlorzoxazone: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if chlorzoxazone is used concomitantly with other CNS depressants including sedating H1-blockers. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness can occur, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of one or both medications may be necessary.
cloBAZam: (Moderate) Clobazam, a benzodiazepine, may cause drowsiness or other CNS effects. Additive drowsiness may occur when clobazam is combined with CNS depressants such as sedating H1-blockers. In addition, caution is recommended when administering clobazam with medications extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 such as diphenhydramine because clobazam has been shown to inhibit CYP2D6 in vivo and may increase concentrations of drugs metabolized by this enzyme.
clonazePAM: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Clorazepate: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Clozapine exhibits clinically significant anticholinergic effects and sedation that may be additive with other medications that may cause anticholinergic effects and sedation, including antihistamines such as dexbrompheniramine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription cough and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines and to avoid tasks requiring mental alertness until they are aware of the effects of the combination.
Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with dexbrompheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with dexbrompheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with dexbrompheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with dexbrompheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with dexbrompheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with dexbrompheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with dexbrompheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with dexbrompheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and sedative effects may be seen when promethazine is used with first generation antihistamines, such as dexbrompheniramine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription cough and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines. (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with dexbrompheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with dexbrompheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and sedative effects may be seen when promethazine is used with first generation antihistamines, such as dexbrompheniramine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription cough and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines. (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with dexbrompheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with dexbrompheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
COMT inhibitors: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Dantrolene: (Moderate) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect (e.g., drowsiness) may occur when dantrolene is combined with other CNS depressants.
Daratumumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Desloratadine: (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Desloratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Moderate) Consider a dosage reduction for dexmedetomidine or the sedating antihistamine during concomitant use due to the risk of additive CNS effects.
Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Dicyclomine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and dicyclomine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Difelikefalin: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when diphenoxylate/difenoxin is combined with other CNS depressants. Diphenoxylate/difenoxin decreases GI motility. Other drugs that also decrease GI motility, such as sedating H1 blockers, may produce additive effects with diphenoxylate/difenoxin if used concomitantly. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of dronabinol with antihistamines is necessary. Concurrent use of dronabinol, THC with antihistamines may result in additive drowsiness, hypertension, tachycardia, and possibly cardiotoxicity.
Efgartigimod Alfa; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Entacapone: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Estazolam: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Eszopiclone: (Moderate) A reduction in the dose of eszopiclone and concomitantly administered CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, should be considered to minimize additive sedative effects. In addition, the risk of next-day psychomotor impairment is increased during co-administration of eszopiclone and other CNS depressants, which may decrease the ability to perform tasks requiring full mental alertness such as driving.
Ethanol: (Major) Advise patients to avoid alcohol consumption while taking CNS depressants. Alcohol consumption may result in additive CNS depression.
Etomidate: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Fenfluramine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of fenfluramine and dexbrompheniramine. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with dexbrompheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with dexbrompheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
flavoxATE: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and flavoxate use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Flibanserin: (Moderate) The concomitant use of flibanserin with CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, may increase the risk of CNS depression (e.g., dizziness, somnolence) compared to the use of flibanserin alone. Patients should avoid activities requiring full alertness (e.g., operating machinery or driving) until at least 6 hours after each dose and until they know how flibanserin affects them.
fluPHENAZine: (Moderate) Additive sedative effects may be seen when fluphenazine is used with first generation antihistamines, such as dexbrompheniramine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription cough and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines.
Flurazepam: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Food: (Major) Advise patients to avoid cannabis use while taking CNS depressants due to the risk for additive CNS depression and potential for other cognitive adverse reactions.
Gabapentin: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of dexbrompheniramine and gabapentin. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Galantamine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and galantamine should be avoided if possible. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of galantamine.
Glycopyrrolate: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and glycopyrrolate use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and glycopyrrolate use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Heparin: (Minor) Antihistamines may partially counteract the anticoagulant actions of heparin, according to the product labels. However, this interaction is not likely of clinical significance since heparin therapy is adjusted to the partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) and other clinical parameters of the patient.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with dexbrompheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with dexbrompheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and homatropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Hyaluronidase, Recombinant; Immune Globulin: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Hyaluronidase: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with dexbrompheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with dexbrompheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with dexbrompheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with dexbrompheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
HYDROmorphone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with dexbrompheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with dexbrompheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Hyoscyamine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and hyoscyamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and hyoscyamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Isocarboxazid: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors and sedating H1-blockers is contraindicated due to increased anticholinergic effects.
Ketamine: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Lasmiditan: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lasmiditan and sedating H1-blockers. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Lemborexant: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lemborexant and sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Dosage adjustments of lemborexant and sedating H1-blockers may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if lemborexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should generally avoid nonprescription antihistamine products that are marketed as sleep-aids concurrently with lemborexant.
Levocetirizine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Levorphanol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with dexbrompheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with dexbrompheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Loratadine: (Minor) Although loratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of loratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Loratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) Although loratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of loratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
LORazepam: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Loxapine: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are associated with anticholinergic effects and sedation; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use with other drugs having anticholinergic activity and CNS depressant properties such as traditional antipsychotic agents, including loxapine. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may also occur.
Lumateperone: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lumateperone and dexbrompheniramine. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Lurasidone: (Moderate) Due to the CNS effects of lurasidone, caution should be used when lurasidone is given in combination with other centrally acting medications. Sedating H1-blockers are associated with sedation; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use with other drugs having CNS depressant properties such as antipsychotics. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may occur.
Melatonin: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of melatonin and sedating H1-blockers due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with dexbrompheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with dexbrompheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Meprobamate: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including sedating H1-blockers.
Metaxalone: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent.
Methadone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with dexbrompheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with dexbrompheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Methamphetamine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. Coadminister with caution and monitor for altered response to drug therapy.
Methenamine; Sodium Acid Phosphate; Methylene Blue; Hyoscyamine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and hyoscyamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Methocarbamol: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as sedating H1-blockers. Combination therapy can cause additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the patient's ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary.
Methscopolamine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Metoclopramide: (Minor) Combined use of metoclopramide and other CNS depressants, such as anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, can increase possible sedation.
metyroSINE: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of metyrosine with sedating H1-blockers can result in additive sedative effects.
Midazolam: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Minocycline: (Minor) Injectable minocycline contains magnesium sulfate heptahydrate. Because of the CNS-depressant effects of magnesium sulfate, additive central-depressant effects can occur following concurrent administration with CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers. Caution should be exercised when using these agents concurrently.
Mirtazapine: (Moderate) Consistent with the CNS depressant effects of mirtazapine, additive effects may occur with other CNS depressants such as dexbrompheniramine. Mirtazapine should be administered cautiously with such agents because the CNS effects on cognitive performance and motor skills can be additive.
Mitotane: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including sedating h1-blockers, may cause additive CNS effects.
Molindone: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating h1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including molindone.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors and sedating H1-blockers is contraindicated due to increased anticholinergic effects.
Morphine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with dexbrompheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with dexbrompheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Nalbuphine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nalbuphine with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the effects of nalbuphine on respiratory depression, CNS depression, and sedation.
Nefazodone: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating H1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including nefazodone.
Neostigmine; Glycopyrrolate: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and glycopyrrolate use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Nivolumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Ocrelizumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Oliceridine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with dexbrompheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with dexbrompheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Opiate Agonists: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with dexbrompheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with dexbrompheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Opicapone: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like sedating H1-blockers and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Oxazepam: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
oxyBUTYnin: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and oxybutynin use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with dexbrompheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with dexbrompheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
oxyMORphone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with dexbrompheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with dexbrompheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
PARoxetine: (Moderate) Of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibiting antidepressants (SSRIs), paroxetine is considered the most anticholinergic. Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when paroxetine is used with antihistamines having anticholinergic properties such as dexbrompheniramine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription cough and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines.
Pembrolizumab; berahyaluronidase alfa: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Pentazocine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Use pentazocine with caution in any patient receiving medication with CNS depressant and/or anticholinergic activity. Coadministration of pentazocine with sedating H1-blockers may result in additive respiratory and CNS depression and anticholinergic effects, such as urinary retention and constipation.
Perampanel: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Perphenazine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and sedative effects may be seen when perphenazine is used with first generation antihistamines, such as dexbrompheniramine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription cough and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and sedative effects may be seen when perphenazine is used with first generation antihistamines, such as dexbrompheniramine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription cough and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines.
Pertuzumab; Trastuzumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Phenelzine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors and sedating H1-blockers is contraindicated due to increased anticholinergic effects.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and hyoscyamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and scopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Pitolisant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with dexbrompheniramine as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like dexbrompheniramine, may reduce pitolisant efficacy.
Pramipexole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of pramipexole with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the sedation effects of pramipexole.
Pregabalin: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of dexbrompheniramine and pregabalin. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Procarbazine: (Moderate) Use procarbazine and sedating H1-blockers together with caution; additive central nervous system depression may occur.
Prochlorperazine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and sedative effects may be seen when prochlorperazine is used with first generation antihistamines, such as dexbrompheniramine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription cough and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines.
Promethazine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and sedative effects may be seen when promethazine is used with first generation antihistamines, such as dexbrompheniramine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription cough and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and sedative effects may be seen when promethazine is used with first generation antihistamines, such as dexbrompheniramine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription cough and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and sedative effects may be seen when promethazine is used with first generation antihistamines, such as dexbrompheniramine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription cough and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines.
Propofol: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Quazepam: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Ramelteon: (Moderate) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as ramelteon.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) Concurrent use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) and sedating H1-blockers (sedating antihistamines) may result in additive sedation, anticholinergic effects, or hypotensive reactions. Rasagiline may be less likely to produce these interactions than other MAOIs, due to MAO-B selectivity. However, consider alternatives therapy to antihistamines where possible. If alternative combinations are not available, these medications may be used together with close monitoring. Many non-prescription products for coughs, colds, allergy, hay fever or insomnia contain sedating antihistamines. Patients receiving rasagiline should be counseled that it is essential to consult their healthcare provider or pharmacist prior to the use of any non-prescription products. Patients should also be advised against driving or engaging in other activities requiring mental alertness until they know how this combination affects them.
Remifentanil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with dexbrompheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with dexbrompheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Remimazolam: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
riTUXimab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Rivastigmine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and rivastigmine should be avoided if possible. Rivastigmine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of rivastigmine.
rOPINIRole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
Safinamide: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of other sedating medications, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Scopolamine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and scopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Selegiline: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of selegiline and dexbrompheniramine. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Sincalide: (Moderate) Sincalide-induced gallbladder ejection fraction may be affected by concurrent medications, including H1-blockers. False study results are possible; thorough patient history is important in the interpretation of procedure results.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with dexbrompheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with dexbrompheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Suvorexant: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and sedating H1-blockers may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should generally avoid nonprescription antihistamine products that are marketed as sleep-aids concurrently with suvorexant.
Tapentadol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with dexbrompheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with dexbrompheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Tasimelteon: (Moderate) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as tasimelteon.
Temazepam: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Thalidomide: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of thalidomide with opiate agonists; antihistamines; antipsychotics; anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics; and other central nervous system depressants due to the potential for additive sedative effects.
Thioridazine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and sedative effects may be seen when thioridazine is used with first generation antihistamines, such as dexbrompheniramine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription cough and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines.
Thiothixene: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when antipsychotics, such as thiothixene, are used concomitantly with other drugs such as sedating H1-blockers. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may also occur.
Tolcapone: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Tradipitant: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
traMADol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with dexbrompheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with dexbrompheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with dexbrompheniramine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with dexbrompheniramine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Tranylcypromine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors and sedating H1-blockers is contraindicated due to increased anticholinergic effects.
Trastuzumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Triazolam: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Trifluoperazine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and sedative effects may be seen when trifluoperazine is used with first generation antihistamines, such as dexbrompheniramine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription cough and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines.
Trihexyphenidyl: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and trihexyphenidyl use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Trimethobenzamide: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the sedating h1-blockers, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the sedating h1-blocker.
Trospium: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Vigabatrin: (Moderate) Vigabatrin may cause somnolence and fatigue. Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with vigabatrin, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness. Caution should be used when vigabatrin is given with sedating H1-blockers.
Vilazodone: (Moderate) Due to the CNS effects of vilazodone, caution should be used when vilazodone is given in combination with other centrally acting medications such as anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics. Also, Cyproheptadine is an antagonist of serotonin in the CNS, a property which may oppose some of the pharmacologic effects of vilazodone. Cyproheptadine has been used for the management of orgasm dysfunction caused by the serotonergic antidepressants and for the adjunctive treatment of serotonin syndrome; however, a reversal of antidepressant effects may occur when cyproheptadine is given in a routine manner along with the antidepressant. Clinically, cyproheptadine reportedly has interfered with the antidepressant and anti-bulimia actions of fluoxetine, but more data are needed to confirm a direct drug-drug interaction.
Xanomeline; Trospium: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Zaleplon: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of sedating H1-blockers and zaleplon due to the risk for additive CNS depression and next-day psychomotor impairment; dose adjustments may be necessary.
Ziconotide: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are CNS depressant medications that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Zolpidem: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of sedating H1-blockers and zolpidem due to the risk for additive CNS depression and next-day psychomotor impairment; dose adjustments may be necessary. Limit the dose of Intermezzo sublingual tablets to 1.75 mg/day.
Zuranolone: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    anxiety, confusion, dizziness, drowsiness, euphoria, excitability, fatigue, hallucinations, headache, insomnia, irritability, neuritis, restlessness, seizures, tremor
    General Information
    Possible central nervous system (CNS) side effects of antihistamines are drowsiness, fatigue, confusion, restlessness, dizziness, disturbed coordination, headache, nervousness, euphoria, paresthesias, neuritis, and tremor. Alternatively, H1-antagonists can cause paradoxical CNS stimulation manifested as nervousness/anxiety, excitability, irritability, insomnia, hallucinations, or seizures. These reactions may occur more frequently in children and with the use of high doses. Tolerance to CNS effects may occur with repeated use.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anxiety
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      confusion
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      euphoria
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      excitability
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      restlessness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      seizures
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      hallucinations
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      neuritis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      irritability
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      tremor
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    anorexia, constipation, diarrhea, nausea, pyrosis (heartburn), vomiting, xerostomia
    General Information
    Possible gastrointestinal side effects of antihistamines are epigastric distress, anorexia, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, constipation, pyrosis (heartburn), and xerostomia.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      pyrosis (heartburn)
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    agranulocytosis, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia
    General Information
    Possible hematologic side effects of antihistamines include agranulocytosis, hemolytic anemia, and thrombocytopenia.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      agranulocytosis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hemolytic anemia
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    anaphylactic shock, hyperhidrosis, photosensitivity, rash, skin irritation, urticaria
    General Information
    Side effects of antihistamines may include urticaria, drug rash, anaphylactic shock, photosensitivity, and hyperhidrosis. Skin irritation/dermatitis is very rarely associated with antihistamines.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactic shock
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      photosensitivity
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      skin irritation
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      hyperhidrosis
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    tinnitus, vertigo
    General Information
    Possible side effects of antihistamines include tinnitus and vertigo.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      tinnitus
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      vertigo
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    hypotension, palpitations, sinus tachycardia
    General Information
    Possible cardiovascular side effects with antihistamines include hypotension, palpitations, sinus tachycardia, and extra systoles.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      palpitations
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      sinus tachycardia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    blurred vision, diplopia
    General Information
    Antihistamines may cause blurred vision and diplopia.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      blurred vision
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      diplopia
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    dysuria, polyuria, urinary retention
    General Information
    Antihistamines may cause polyuria, dysuria, urinary retention, and early menses.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dysuria
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      polyuria
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      urinary retention
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    bronchial secretions, chills, nasal congestion, nasal dryness, weakness, wheezing
    General Information
    Weakness, chills, tightness of chest, wheezing, throat and nasal dryness, and nasal congestion are possible side effects of antihistamines. Thickening of bronchial secretions is among the most frequent adverse reactions reported with antihistamines.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      bronchial secretions
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      chills
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      nasal congestion
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      nasal dryness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      weakness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      wheezing
      Severity
      Moderate

Description
  Text
  Dexbrompheniramine is an oral first-generation sedating antihistamine (H1-blocker) of the propylamine class. It is indicated for the temporary relief of symptoms due to allergic rhinitis or other upper respiratory allergies. Dexbrompheniramine exhibits anticholinergic and sedative effects; excitability may occur, especially in children. Dexbrompheniramine was initially FDA approved in the 1960s.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Dexbrompheniramine is an H1-antagonist belonging to the alkylamine class of antihistamines. Antihistamines appear to compete with histamine for receptor sites on effector cells. Dexbrompheniramine also has anticholinergic (drying) and sedative effects. Among the antihistaminic effects, it antagonizes the allergic response (vasodilatation, increased vascular permeability, increased mucus secretion) of nasal tissue.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    After a single dexbrompheniramine 2 mg dose, the initial histamine-antagonizing response is produced within 1 hour and a maximum response in about 3 hours. The response to a 4 mg dose is similar although the histamine-antagonizing effect is slightly more prolonged and achieved a maximum of 1 hour later. Cmax was 22.15 ng/mL, AUC was 239.6 ng x hour/mL, and Tmax was 5.2 hours after oral dexbrompheniramine 2 mg every 4 hours for 7 days.
  Text
  Dexbrompheniramine is administered orally.   Dexbrompheniramine is about twice as potent as the racemic compound.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: none

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Liquid Formulations
      Description
      Use a calibrated spoon, dropper, or cup to measure dose.
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    May be given without regard to meals.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    12 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    12 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    12 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    12 years: 12 mg/day PO.
6 to 11 years: 6 mg/day PO.
1 to 5 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available. No specific hepatic impairment precautions are noted.
  Renal Impairment
  No dosage adjustments are needed for renal impairment.
