=== Artesunate — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 2569)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Artesunate is a parenteral artemisinin derivative indicated for the treatment of severe malaria.

Routes: injection (IV/IM/SC); Common adult doses: 2.4 mg/kg/dose IV.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): anemia, disseminated intravascular coagulation (dic), leukocytosis, leukopenia, lymphopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, anaphylactoid reactions, rash, stevens-johnson syndrome, urticaria, ataxia, confusion, dizziness, dysgeusia, headache, paresis, restlessness, tinnitus, tremor, weakness, elevated hepatic enzymes, hyperbilirubinemia, jaundice, acute respiratory distress syndrome (ards), cough, pulmonary edema, pancreatitis

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. It is also contraindicated in patients with a history of artemisinins hypersensitivity. pregnancy Given the hazards of severe malaria during pregnancy, administer full dose parenteral...

ARTESUNATE

Close

Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of severe malaria

For the treatment of severe malaria when parasite density is 1% or less and patients able to tolerate oral therapy
Intravenous dosage
Adults


2.4 mg/kg/dose IV administered at 0, 12, and 24 hours, then step-down to oral therapy starting 4 to 24 hours following the final IV dose. Administer artesunate with an antimalarial agent that is active against the hypnozoite liver stage forms of Plasmodium, such as an 8-aminoquinoline drug, to patients with severe malaria due to P. vivax or P. ovale.


Infants, Children, and Adolescents weighing 20 kg or more


2.4 mg/kg/dose IV administered at 0, 12, and 24 hours, then step-down to oral therapy starting 4 to 24 hours following the final IV dose. Administer artesunate with an antimalarial agent that is active against the hypnozoite liver stage forms of Plasmodium, such as an 8-aminoquinoline drug, to patients with severe malaria due to P. vivax or P. ovale.


Infants and Children weighing less than 20 kg


2.4 to 3 mg/kg/dose IV administered at 0, 12, and 24 hours, then step-down to oral therapy starting 4 to 24 hours following the final IV dose. The CDC recommends 2.4 mg/kg/dose based on unpublished pharmacokinetic modeling. Administer artesunate with an antimalarial agent that is active against the hypnozoite liver stage forms of Plasmodium, such as an 8-aminoquinoline drug, to patients with severe malaria due to P. vivax or P. ovale.


For the treatment of severe malaria when parasite density is 1% or less and patients unable to tolerate oral therapy
Intravenous dosage
Adults


2.4 mg/kg/dose IV administered at 0, 12, and 24 hours, then 2.4 mg/kg/dose IV once daily for up to 6 days; step-down to oral therapy when tolerated, starting 4 to 24 hours following the final IV dose. Administer artesunate with an antimalarial agent that is active against the hypnozoite liver stage forms of Plasmodium, such as an 8-aminoquinoline drug, to patients with severe malaria due to P. vivax or P. ovale.


Infants, Children, and Adolescents weighing 20 kg or more


2.4 mg/kg/dose IV administered at 0, 12, and 24 hours, then 2.4 mg/kg/dose IV once daily for up to 6 days; step-down to oral therapy when tolerated, starting 4 to 24 hours following the final IV dose. Administer artesunate with an antimalarial agent that is active against the hypnozoite liver stage forms of Plasmodium, such as an 8-aminoquinoline drug, to patients with severe malaria due to P. vivax or P. ovale.


Infants and Children weighing less than 20 kg


2.4 to 3 mg/kg/dose IV administered at 0, 12, and 24 hours, then 2.4 to 3 mg/kg/dose IV once daily for up to 6 days; step-down to oral therapy when tolerated, starting 4 to 24 hours following the final IV dose. The CDC recommends 2.4 mg/kg/dose based on unpublished pharmacokinetic modeling. Administer artesunate with an antimalarial agent that is active against the hypnozoite liver stage forms of Plasmodium, such as an 8-aminoquinoline drug, to patients with severe malaria due to P. vivax or P. ovale.


For the treatment of for the treatment of severe malaria when parasite density is more than 1%
Intravenous dosage
Adults


2.4 mg/kg/dose IV administered at 0, 12, and 24 hours, then 2.4 mg/kg/dose IV once daily for up to 6 days; step-down to oral therapy when parasite density is 1% or less, starting 4 to 24 hours following the final IV dose. Administer artesunate with an antimalarial agent that is active against the hypnozoite liver stage forms of Plasmodium, such as an 8-aminoquinoline drug, to patients with severe malaria due to P. vivax or P. ovale.


Infants, Children, and Adolescents weighing 20 kg or more


2.4 mg/kg/dose IV administered at 0, 12, and 24 hours, then 2.4 mg/kg/dose IV once daily for up to 6 days; step-down to oral therapy when parasite density is 1% or less, starting 4 to 24 hours following the final IV dose. Administer artesunate with an antimalarial agent that is active against the hypnozoite liver stage forms of Plasmodium, such as an 8-aminoquinoline drug, to patients with severe malaria due to P. vivax or P. ovale.


Infants and Childrening weighing less than 20 kg


2.4 to 3 mg/kg/dose IV administered at 0, 12, and 24 hours, then 2.4 to 3 mg/kg/dose IV once daily for up to 6 days; step-down to oral therapy when parasite density is 1% or less, starting 4 to 24 hours following the final IV dose. The CDC recommends 2.4 mg/kg/dose based on unpublished pharmacokinetic modeling. Administer artesunate with an antimalarial agent that is active against the hypnozoite liver stage forms of Plasmodium, such as an 8-aminoquinoline drug, to patients with severe malaria due to P. vivax or P. ovale.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. It is also contraindicated in patients with a history of artemisinins hypersensitivity.

pregnancy


Given the hazards of severe malaria during pregnancy, administer full dose parenteral antimalarial therapy without delay. Do not withhold artesunate during the first trimester of pregnancy if it is potentially life-saving for the mother. Malaria during pregnancy increases the risk for adverse pregnancy outcomes, including maternal anemia, severe malaria, spontaneous abortion, stillbirth, preterm delivery, low birth weight, intrauterine growth restriction, congenital malaria, and maternal and neonatal mortality. Pregnancy outcomes reported from a prospective surveillance study with intravenous artesunate are insufficient to identify a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or fetal death. Reports of first-trimester use of intravenous artesunate, published randomized control trials, observational studies, and cohort studies in over 1,300 pregnant individuals exposed to oral artesunate or other artemisinin class drugs (via various routes of administration) in the first trimester of pregnancy and over 6,500 pregnant individuals exposed to oral artesunate or other artemisinin class drugs (via various routes of administration) in the second and third trimesters of pregnancy have not demonstrated an increase in major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse outcomes. The bioavailability of oral artesunate is expected to be significantly lower than intravenous artesunate; therefore, the clinical relevance of studies involving oral exposure to artesunate and other artemisinin class drugs is uncertain. In a study of 461 pregnant individuals (44 in their first trimester) who were treated with artemisinins, predominately artesunate, there was no obvious evidence of adverse effects among the 414 individuals for whom pregnancy outcomes were known. The observed rates of abortion, stillbirth, congenital anomalies, and low birth weight were comparable to community rates. In clinical trials, 2,045 pregnant individuals, most of whom were in their second or third trimesters, were treated with artesunate monotherapy or in combination with other antimalarials; there were no significant differences compared to the general community in birth weights, gestation durations, placental weights, congenital anomalies, or growth and developmental parameters of infants monitored for 1 year. In animal studies, artesunate has been associated with fetal toxicity during the first trimester of pregnancy. There is a pregnancy safety study for artesunate for injection; if artesunate is administered during pregnancy, report artesunate exposure by contacting the manufacturer at 1-855-526-4827 or www.amivas.com/our-products.


breast-feeding


Use artesunate with caution during breast-feeding. Dihydroartemisinin (DHA), the active metabolite of artesunate, is present in human milk. The drug concentrations are not expected to cause any adverse effects in the breast-fed child. The amount of drug present in breast milk does not protect the breast-fed child from malaria. There are no data on the effects of artesunate or DHA on the breast-fed infant or on milk production. Consider the developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding along with the clinical need for artesunate and any potential adverse effects on the breast-fed child from artesunate or the underlying condition.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Given the hazards of severe malaria during pregnancy, administer full dose parenteral antimalarial therapy without delay. Do not withhold artesunate during the first trimester of pregnancy if it is potentially life-saving for the mother. Malaria during pregnancy increases the risk for adverse pregnancy outcomes, including maternal anemia, severe malaria, spontaneous abortion, stillbirth, preterm delivery, low birth weight, intrauterine growth restriction, congenital malaria, and maternal and neonatal mortality. Pregnancy outcomes reported from a prospective surveillance study with intravenous artesunate are insufficient to identify a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or fetal death. Reports of first-trimester use of intravenous artesunate, published randomized control trials, observational studies, and cohort studies in over 1,300 pregnant individuals exposed to oral artesunate or other artemisinin class drugs (via various routes of administration) in the first trimester of pregnancy and over 6,500 pregnant individuals exposed to oral artesunate or other artemisinin class drugs (via various routes of administration) in the second and third trimesters of pregnancy have not demonstrated an increase in major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse outcomes. The bioavailability of oral artesunate is expected to be significantly lower than intravenous artesunate; therefore, the clinical relevance of studies involving oral exposure to artesunate and other artemisinin class drugs is uncertain. In a study of 461 pregnant individuals (44 in their first trimester) who were treated with artemisinins, predominately artesunate, there was no obvious evidence of adverse effects among the 414 individuals for whom pregnancy outcomes were known. The observed rates of abortion, stillbirth, congenital anomalies, and low birth weight were comparable to community rates. In clinical trials, 2,045 pregnant individuals, most of whom were in their second or third trimesters, were treated with artesunate monotherapy or in combination with other antimalarials; there were no significant differences compared to the general community in birth weights, gestation durations, placental weights, congenital anomalies, or growth and developmental parameters of infants monitored for 1 year. In animal studies, artesunate has been associated with fetal toxicity during the first trimester of pregnancy. There is a pregnancy safety study for artesunate for injection; if artesunate is administered during pregnancy, report artesunate exposure by contacting the manufacturer at 1-855-526-4827 or www.amivas.com/our-products.


Interactions

Axitinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in artesunate-related side effects if coadministered with axitinib. Coadministration may increase the exposure of the active metabolite of artesunate, dihydroartemisinin (DHA). DHA is a UGT substrate, and axitinib is a strong UGT inhibitor.
carBAMazepine: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in antimalarial efficacy if artesunate is coadministered with carbamazepine. Coadministration may decrease the exposure of the active metabolite of artesunate, dihydroartemisinin (DHA). DHA is a UGT substrate, and carbamazepine is a strong UGT inducer.
Diclofenac: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in artesunate-related side effects if coadministered with diclofenac. Coadministration may increase the exposure of the active metabolite of artesunate, dihydroartemisinin (DHA). DHA is a UGT substrate, and diclofenac is a strong UGT inhibitor.
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in artesunate-related side effects if coadministered with diclofenac. Coadministration may increase the exposure of the active metabolite of artesunate, dihydroartemisinin (DHA). DHA is a UGT substrate, and diclofenac is a strong UGT inhibitor.
Fosphenytoin: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in antimalarial efficacy if artesunate is coadministered with fosphenytoin. Coadministration may decrease the exposure of the active metabolite of artesunate, dihydroartemisinin (DHA). DHA is a UGT substrate, and fosphenytoin is a strong UGT inducer.
Imatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in artesunate-related side effects if coadministered with imatinib. Coadministration may increase the exposure of the active metabolite of artesunate, dihydroartemisinin (DHA). DHA is a UGT substrate, and imatinib is a strong UGT inhibitor.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in antimalarial efficacy if artesunate is coadministered with ritonavir. Coadministration of oral artesunate with ritonavir resulted in a decrease in the AUC of the active metabolite of artesunate, dihydroartemisinin, by 38%.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in antimalarial efficacy if artesunate is coadministered with ritonavir. Coadministration of oral artesunate with ritonavir resulted in a decrease in the AUC of the active metabolite of artesunate, dihydroartemisinin, by 38%.
Phenytoin: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in antimalarial efficacy if artesunate is coadministered with phenytoin. Coadministration may decrease the exposure of the active metabolite of artesunate, dihydroartemisinin (DHA). DHA is a UGT substrate, and phenytoin is a strong UGT inducer.
rifAMPin: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in antimalarial efficacy if artesunate is coadministered with rifampin. Coadministration may decrease the exposure of the active metabolite of artesunate, dihydroartemisinin (DHA). DHA is a UGT substrate, and rifampin is a strong UGT inducer.
Ritonavir: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in antimalarial efficacy if artesunate is coadministered with ritonavir. Coadministration of oral artesunate with ritonavir resulted in a decrease in the AUC of the active metabolite of artesunate, dihydroartemisinin, by 38%.
Vandetanib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in artesunate-related side effects if coadministered with vandetanib. Coadministration may increase the exposure of the active metabolite of artesunate, dihydroartemisinin (DHA). DHA is a UGT substrate, and vandetanib is a strong UGT inhibitor.


Adverse Reaction
anemia, disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC), leukocytosis, leukopenia, lymphopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia


General hematologic adverse events reported during artesunate clinical trials include hemoglobinuria (6.7%), anemia (65%), thrombocytopenia (18%), leukocytosis (10%), leukopenia (2% or more), lymphopenia (7%), neutropenia (5%), disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) (3%), and a reduced reticulocyte count (2% or more).


hemolysis, hemolytic anemia


Delayed post-artemisinin hemolytic anemia or post-artesunate delayed hemolysis (PADH) has been noted in published case reports with artesunate. Cases of post-treatment hemolytic anemia severe enough to require transfusion have been reported. Monitor patients for 4 weeks after treatment for evidence of hemolytic anemia. PADH is characterized by decreased hemoglobin with laboratory evidence of hemolysis (such as decreased haptoglobin and increased lactate dehydrogenase) occurring at least 7 days after initiating treatment. Since a subset of patients with delayed hemolysis after artesunate therapy have evidence of immune-mediated hemolysis, consider performing a direct antiglobulin test to determine if therapy (e.g., corticosteroids) is necessary. Immune hemolytic anemia has been reported in postmarketing experience with artesunate. Persons with higher parasitemia seem to have a higher likelihood of PADH. In a case series of 25 patients treated with IV artesunate for severe malaria, 6 patients developed significant PADH, presenting as late as 3 weeks after treatment, and 5 patients required transfusion. The hypothesis for the occurrence of PADH is that the previously infected erythrocytes have a decreased life span compared to erythrocytes that were never infected. Rather than being lysed by the parasites at the time of the severe malaria episode, the erythrocytes are cleared by the spleen 7 to 14 days after treatment in a self-limited hemolytic event.


anaphylactoid reactions, rash, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, urticaria


Hypersensitivity to artesunate, including anaphylactoid reactions (anaphylaxis), has been reported. If hypotension, dyspnea, urticaria, or generalized rash occurs, consider discontinuing artesunate and continuing therapy with another antimalarial agent. During artesunate clinical trials, rash has been reported in 2% or more of patients, and Stevens-Johnson syndrome and urticaria have been reported in less than 2% of patients.


ataxia, confusion, dizziness, dysgeusia, headache, paresis, restlessness, tinnitus, tremor, weakness


In a randomized, controlled trial, neurologic adverse events reported at the time of hospital discharge included loss of balance, hemiplegia or paresis, ataxia, neuropsychiatric symptoms, tremor, generalized weakness, confusion, and restlessness. At hospital discharge, 7 patients (1%) in the artesunate arm had significant neurologic impairments compared with 3 patients (0.4%) in the quinine arm. Other nervous system adverse events reported in 2% or more of patients during artesunate clinical trials include dysgeusia, tinnitus, dizziness, and headache.


renal failure (unspecified)


Acute renal failure (unspecified) requiring dialysis was reported in 8.9% to 10% of patients during artesunate clinical trials. Elevated creatinine was observed in 3% of patients.


elevated hepatic enzymes, hyperbilirubinemia, jaundice


Hepatic adverse events reported during artesunate clinical trials include jaundice (2.3%), elevated hepatic enzymes (27%), and hyperbilirubinemia (14%).


acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), cough, pulmonary edema


Respiratory adverse events reported during artesunate clinical trials include acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) (8%), pneumonia (3%), pulmonary edema (3%), and cough (2% or more).


abdominal pain, diarrhea, pancreatitis, vomiting


Gastrointestinal adverse events reported during artesunate clinical trials include diarrhea (3%), abdominal pain (2% or more), and vomiting (2% or more). Pancreatitis has been reported in postmarketing experience with artesunate.


fever


Pyrexia (fever) was reported in 2% or more of patients during artesunate clinical trials.


Description

Artesunate is a parenteral artemisinin derivative indicated for the treatment of severe malaria. Artesunate is a hemisuccinate derivative of dihydroartemisinin (DHA), which is itself formed from the reduction of artemisinin. Artesunate is not active against the hypnozoite liver stage forms of Plasmodium and will not prevent relapses of malaria due to P. vivax or P. ovale. Concomitant therapy with an antimalarial agent such as an 8-aminoquinoline drug is necessary for the treatment of severe malaria due to P. vivax or P. ovale. Artemisinin is a sesquiterpene lactone endoperoxide extracted from qinghao, sweet wormwood (Artemisia annua), a plant that has been used for centuries in traditional Chinese medicine. Artemisinins differ from other antimalarials in that they have the ability to kill all erythrocytic stages of the malaria parasite. They are also the most rapid-acting of the antimalarials. Rarely, delayed post-artemisinin hemolytic anemia or post-artesunate delayed hemolysis (PADH) has been noted in published case reports. Artesunate is the only intravenous therapy available for severe cases of malaria.

Mechanism Of Action

Artesunate, an artemisinin derivative, is schizonticidal. The mechanism of action of artemisinins likely involves cleavage of the internal endoperoxide bridge through reaction with heme iron within the infected erythrocyte, leading to oxidative stress, inhibition of protein and nucleic acid synthesis, ultrastructural changes, as well as a decrease in parasite growth and survival. Artemisinins have also been reported to inhibit an essential parasite calcium adenosine triphosphatase. Artemisinin derivatives act on all erythrocytic stages of the malaria parasite, including early inactive rings, in addition to late trophozoites and schizonts, which are responsible for cytoadherence. They also have an action on immature sexual forms as well as the gametocytes responsible for malarial transmission. Artesunate and other artemisinins are inactive against extra-erythrocytic forms, sporozoites, liver schizonts, or merozoites. Artemisinins are the most rapid-acting of the antimalarials. Artesunate and dihydroartemisinin (DHA), the active metabolite of artesunate, clear parasitemia within 48 to 72 hours. They have also been shown to enhance splenic clearance of infected erythrocytes by reducing cytoadherence. Parasite clearance is mainly due to pitting, which is the process of the dead parasite being removed from its host erythrocyte without hemolysis when passing through the inter-endothelial slits of the spleen. The parasite is then retained in the spleen and eliminated by resident phagocytic cells, and the previously infected erythrocyte returns to general circulation. Therefore, artesunate therapy produces a rapid decrease in parasitemia and inhibits cytoadherence without the destruction of the host erythrocyte. The efficacy of artemisinins seems to be mainly due to the peak concentration (Cmax), and the parasite-killing activity is dose-dependent. In vitro, DHA exhibits similar potency against chloroquine-resistant and chloroquine-sensitive P. falciparum.
 
There is the potential for the development of resistance to artesunate and DHA. Alternations in some genetic regions of P. falciparum genes such as multidrug-resistant 1 (pfmdr1), chloroquine resistance transporter (pfcrt), and kelch13 (K13) have been reported. Recrudescence occurs in patients treated with artesunate monotherapy.

Pharmacokinetics

Artesunate is administered intravenously. Artesunate is the hemisuccinate of the ester of dihydroartemisinin (DHA). DHA is the active metabolite of artesunate. DHA has been shown to accumulate in P. falciparum-infected erythrocytes substantially. Plasma protein binding of DHA is 93% in patients and 88% in healthy volunteers. The median volumes of distribution are 68.5 L and 59.7 L for artesunate and DHA, respectively. Artesunate rapidly biotransforms to its active metabolite, DHA. Artesunate is extensively and rapidly hydrolyzed by plasma esterases. DHA is further metabolized in the liver via glucuronidation to alpha-dihydroartemisinin-beta-glucuronide. Alpha-dihydroartemisinin-beta-glucuronide is the major urinary product in patients with malaria. The median half-life of artesunate is 0.3 hours, and the median half-life of DHA is 1.3 hours.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: BCRP, OATP1B1, OAT3, P-gp, UGT
Artesunate is a substrate of breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) and P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and a weak inhibitor of organic anion transporting polypeptide 1B1 (OATP1B1) and organic anion transporter 3 (OAT3) in vitro. Dihydroartemisinin (DHA), the active metabolite or artesunate, is a substrate of UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) 1A9 or UGT 2B7 in vitro.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Intravenous Route

After a single dose of artesunate 2.4 mg/kg IV, high concentrations of dihydroartemisinin (DHA), the active metabolite, are observed within 5 minutes of IV artesunate administration. The estimated time to maximum concentration (Tmax) for DHA was 0.5 to 15 minutes, and the Cmax for DHA was 5.3 to 10.6 micromol/L. After multiple doses of artesunate 2.4 mg/kg IV, the median Cmax was 3.3 (1 to 164) mcg/mL for artesunate and 3.1 (1.7 to 9.5) mcg/mL for DHA, and the median AUC was 0.7 (0.3 to 111.3) mcg x hour/mL for artesunate and 3.5 (2.2 to 6.3) mcg x hour/mL for DHA. 

Hepatic Impairment

No pharmacokinetic data are available for patients with impaired hepatic function.

Renal Impairment

No pharmacokinetic data are available for patients with impaired renal function.

Pediatrics

Pharmacokinetic simulations, using population-based meta-analysis of dihydroartemisinin (DHA) pharmacokinetics, indicate a dosage regimen of artesunate 2.4 mg/kg results in comparable or greater predicted steady-state DHA AUC in infants younger than 6 months compared to that observed in older children or adults. The difference in predicted exposures in infants younger than 6 months is presumed to be due to immature development of the UGT elimination pathway for DHA.

Other

Pregnancy
In a pharmacokinetic study involving 20 pregnant women with acute uncomplicated malaria administered artesunate 4 mg/kg IV, systemic exposures of artesunate and dihydroartemisinin (DHA) were comparable between the pregnant patients and the 3-months postpartum healthy patients.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information.

Injectable Administration


Visually inspect parenteral products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.
Administer artesunate with an antimalarial agent that is active against the hypnozoite liver stage forms of Plasmodium, such as an 8-aminoquinoline drug, to patients with severe malaria due to P. vivax or P. ovale.


Intravenous Administration

Reconstitution
Reconstitute with the supplied sodium phosphate buffer diluent before administration.
Withdraw 11 mL of the diluent and inject into the artesunate vial, resulting in a concentration of 10 mg/mL.
Gently swirl the mixture for 5 to 6 minutes until fully dissolved. Do not shake.
Storage: Administer within 1.5 hours of reconstitution.
 
Intermittent IV Injection
Inject slowly over 1 to 2 minutes through an established IV line or needle.
Do not administer by continuous IV infusion.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

2.4 mg/kg/dose IV.

Geriatric

2.4 mg/kg/dose IV.

Adolescents

2.4 mg/kg/dose IV.

Children

Weighing 20 kg or more: 2.4 mg/kg/dose IV.
Weighing less than 20 kg: 2.4 mg/kg/dose IV; 3 mg/kg/dose IV has been used off-label.

Infants


2.4 mg/kg/dose IV; 3 mg/kg/dose IV has been used off-label.


Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

Artesunate 110mg Powder for solution for injection with Diluent

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

No dosage adjustments are needed for patients with hepatic impairment.

Renal Impairment

No dosage adjustments are needed for patients with renal impairment.

© 2026 Elsevier