=== Interferon Alfa-n3 (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 2511)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: NOTE:

Common adult doses: 0.05 mL intralesionally per wart twice weekly.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): arthralgia, chills, fatigue, fever, headache, malaise, myalgia, back pain, chest pain (unspecified), muscle cramps, dysgeusia, hyperesthesia, hypersalivation, pyrosis (heartburn), confusion, depression, diaphoresis, dizziness, drowsiness, heat intolerance, hot flashes, insomnia, paresthesias, bleeding, cough, epistaxis, pharyngitis, edema, flushing, injection site reaction

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Interferon alfa-n3 is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to human interferon proteins or any component of the product. Each ml of interferon alfa-n3 contains 1 mg of human albumin and, thus, is contraindicated for use by patients with albumin hypersensitivity. NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market.

Brand Names
  - Alferon N

Indication Specific Dosing
  General Information
  NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Intralesional dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        0.05 mL (250,000 international units) per wart intralesionally twice weekly for up to 8 weeks. The maximum recommended dose per treatment session is 0.5 mL (2.5 million international units). The minimum effective dose of interferon alfa-n3 has not been established. Genital warts usually begin to disappear after several weeks of treatment. Treatment should be continued for a maximum of 8 weeks. In clinical trials, many patients who had a partial resolution of warts during treatment experienced further resolution of their warts after cessation of treatment. Of the patients who had complete resolution, half had complete resolution by the end of treatment and half had complete resolution of venereal warts during the 3 months after treatment cessation. Thus, it is recommended that no further treatment (interferon alfa-n3 or conventional therapy) be given for 3 months after the initial 8-week course unless the lesions enlarge or new warts appear. Studies to determine the efficacy of a second treatment course have not been conducted. The HIV guidelines generally do not recommend due to cost, administration difficulties, and systemic side effects.
    Heading
    For treatment of refractory or recurring external condylomata acuminata (genital or venereal warts), due to the human papillomavirus (HPV) infection

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Interferon alfa-n3 is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to human interferon proteins or any component of the product. Each ml of interferon alfa-n3 contains 1 mg of human albumin and, thus, is contraindicated for use by patients with albumin hypersensitivity. Interferon alfa-n3 is also contraindicated for use by patients who have anaphylactic sensitivity to mouse immunoglobulin (IgG), egg protein, or neomycin. Patients with murine protein hypersensitivity, egg hypersensitivity, or neomycin hypersensitivity should not receive interferon alfa-n3.Because of the fever and 'flu-like' symptoms associated with interferon alfa-n3, it should be used with caution in patients with debilitating medical conditions such as cardiac disease (e.g., cardiac arrhythmias, unstable angina, and uncontrolled congestive heart failure), severe pulmonary disease [e.g., chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)], or diabetes mellitus with ketoacidosis.Interferon alfa-n3 should be used cautiously in patients with thrombophlebitis, pulmonary embolism, hemophilia, severe bone marrow suppression, or seizure disorder.Safe use of interferon alfa-n3 during pregnancy has not been established. Interferon alfa-n3 is classified as FDA pregnancy category C. Interferon alfa-n3 should only be used during pregnancy if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus. Dose-related menstrual abnormalities and an increased incidence of spontaneous abortions have occurred in primates. Decreased serum estradiol and progesterone levels have been reported in women treated with human leukocyte interferon; the impact on female fertility has not been fully evaluated. There was no significant difference between interferon alfa-n3 and placebo treatment groups with regard to menstrual cycle changes. Females of childbearing age should not receive interferon alfa-n3 unless they are using effective contraception during treatment.It is not known if interferon alfa-n3 is excreted into breast milk. Due to the potential of adverse reactions in the infant, a decision as to whether to continue breast-feeding the infant or to discontinue the drug should be made, taking into consideration the importance of the drug to the mother.The safety and effectiveness have not been established for children < 18 years of age.Alfa interferons may exacerbate preexisting psoriasis; therefore, interferon alfa-n3 should only be used in these patients if the potential benefit justifies the risk.Patients with thyroid disease (e.g., hyperthyroidism or hypothyroidism) whose thyroid function cannot be maintained in the normal range by medication should not be treated with interferon alfa-n3 therapy. Testing of TSH levels in these patients is recommended at baseline and every 3 months following initiation of therapy. Also, the development or exacerbation of autoimmune thyroid diseases (e.g., Graves' disease, thyroiditis) has been observed in patients receiving alpha interferons. Interferon alfa-n3 should be used with caution in these patients and only if the potential benefit justifies the risk.Interferon alfa-n3 is made from human leukocytes and, thus, may carry a risk of transmitting infectious agents such as viruses and ,theoretically, the Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) agent. Screening plasma donors for prior exposure to certain viruses, testing for the presence of viruses, and inactivating and/or reducing viruses has reduced the risk of transmission of infectious agents. The manufacturing processes are designed to reduce the risk of transmitting viral infection; however, none of the processes are completely effective. There is also the possibility that unknown infectious agents may be present in this product. Some viruses, such as parvovirus B19, are particularly difficult to remove or inactivate. Parvovirus B19 most seriously affects pregnant women and immune compromised individuals and symptoms include fever, drowsiness, chills, and rhinitis followed in about 2 weeks with rash and joint pain. Patients should be encouraged to call their health care provider if they develop these symptoms. All infections thought by a physician to have been possibly transmitted by interferon alfa-n3 should be reported to the manufacturer. The health care provider should discuss the risks and benefits of this product with the patient.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    angina, cardiac arrhythmias, cardiac disease, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), diabetes mellitus, heart failure, pulmonary disease
    General Information
    Because of the fever and 'flu-like' symptoms associated with interferon alfa-n3, it should be used with caution in patients with debilitating medical conditions such as cardiac disease (e.g., cardiac arrhythmias, unstable angina, and uncontrolled congestive heart failure), severe pulmonary disease [e.g., chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)], or diabetes mellitus with ketoacidosis.
    Headline
    bone marrow suppression, hemophilia, seizure disorder
    General Information
    Interferon alfa-n3 should be used cautiously in patients with thrombophlebitis, pulmonary embolism, hemophilia, severe bone marrow suppression, or seizure disorder.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Safe use of interferon alfa-n3 during pregnancy has not been established; it is classified as FDA pregnancy category C. Interferon alfa-n3 should only be used during pregnancy if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus. Dose-related menstrual abnormalities and an increased incidence of spontaneous abortions have occurred in primates. Decreased serum estradiol and progesterone levels have been reported in women treated with human leukocyte interferon; the impact on female fertility has not been fully evaluated. There was no significant difference between interferon alfa-n3 and placebo treatment groups with regard to menstrual cycle changes. Females of childbearing age should not receive interferon alfa-n3 unless they are using effective contraception during treatment.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    According to the manufacturer, it is not known if interferon alfa-n3 is excreted in breast milk and suggests that because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in a nursing infant, a decision to either discontinue breast feeding or discontinue interferon therapy should be made. However, the American Academy of Pediatrics has determined interferon alfa to be compatible with breast-feeding. One case report involving two pregnant women receiving interferon alfa treatment has been published. An analysis immediately postpartum, found interferon concentrations in the breast milk (1.4 units/mL and 6 units/mL to be considerably lower than the maternal serum concentrations (20.8 units/mL and 58 units/mL, respectively). Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the risk of potential infant drug exposure, and the risk of an untreated or inadequately treated condition. If a breast-feeding infant experiences an adverse effect related to a maternally administered drug, health care providers are encouraged to report the adverse effect to the FDA.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Safe use of interferon alfa-n3 during pregnancy has not been established; it is classified as FDA pregnancy category C. Interferon alfa-n3 should only be used during pregnancy if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus. Dose-related menstrual abnormalities and an increased incidence of spontaneous abortions have occurred in primates. Decreased serum estradiol and progesterone levels have been reported in women treated with human leukocyte interferon; the impact on female fertility has not been fully evaluated. There was no significant difference between interferon alfa-n3 and placebo treatment groups with regard to menstrual cycle changes. Females of childbearing age should not receive interferon alfa-n3 unless they are using effective contraception during treatment.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    According to the manufacturer, it is not known if interferon alfa-n3 is excreted in breast milk and suggests that because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in a nursing infant, a decision to either discontinue breast feeding or discontinue interferon therapy should be made. However, the American Academy of Pediatrics has determined interferon alfa to be compatible with breast-feeding. One case report involving two pregnant women receiving interferon alfa treatment has been published. An analysis immediately postpartum, found interferon concentrations in the breast milk (1.4 units/mL and 6 units/mL to be considerably lower than the maternal serum concentrations (20.8 units/mL and 58 units/mL, respectively). Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the risk of potential infant drug exposure, and the risk of an untreated or inadequately treated condition. If a breast-feeding infant experiences an adverse effect related to a maternally administered drug, health care providers are encouraged to report the adverse effect to the FDA.

Interactions
Abacavir: (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) can both cause hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART.
Abacavir; Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation, during coadministration of interferons (with or without ribavirin) and lamivudine. Dose reduction or discontinuation of interferon, ribavirin, or both should be considered if worsening clinical toxicities are observed, including hepatic decompensation (e.g., Child-Pugh score greater than 6). (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) can both cause hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART.
Abacavir; lamiVUDine, 3TC: (Moderate) Monitor for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation, during coadministration of interferons (with or without ribavirin) and lamivudine. Dose reduction or discontinuation of interferon, ribavirin, or both should be considered if worsening clinical toxicities are observed, including hepatic decompensation (e.g., Child-Pugh score greater than 6). (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) can both cause hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART.
Abacavir; lamiVUDine, 3TC; Zidovudine, ZDV: (Major) Use interferons and zidovudine together with caution. Closely monitor patients for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hematologic effects and hepatic decompensation, and manage as recommended for the individual therapies. Coadministration of alpha interferons may increase the hematologic toxicity of zidovudine. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) are also associated with hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART. Interferon therapy may also reduce zidovudine clearance. (Moderate) Monitor for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation, during coadministration of interferons (with or without ribavirin) and lamivudine. Dose reduction or discontinuation of interferon, ribavirin, or both should be considered if worsening clinical toxicities are observed, including hepatic decompensation (e.g., Child-Pugh score greater than 6). (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) can both cause hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART.
Alemtuzumab: (Moderate) Additive myelosuppressive effects may be seen when alpha interferons are given concurrently with other myelosuppressive agents, such as antineoplastic agents or immunosuppressives.
Arsenic Trioxide: (Moderate) Additive myelosuppressive effects may be seen when alpha interferons are given concurrently with other myelosuppressive agents, such as antineoplastic agents or immunosuppressives.
Atazanavir: (Moderate) The concomitant use of interferons and anti-retroviral protease inhibitors should be done with caution as both can cause hepatotoxicity. Closely monitor patients for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation. Most protease inhibitors have been associated with episodes of liver toxicity. Cirrhotic chronic HCV infected patients co-infected with HIV receiving HAART and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART. The HCV-HIV International Panel recommends the management of hepatotoxicity should be based on the knowledge of the mechanisms involved for each drug. Furthermore, they state that there are lower rates of liver-related mortality in coinfected patients taking HAART, even in those with end-stage liver disease, compared with patients not receiving HAART.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) The concomitant use of interferons and anti-retroviral protease inhibitors should be done with caution as both can cause hepatotoxicity. Closely monitor patients for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation. Most protease inhibitors have been associated with episodes of liver toxicity. Cirrhotic chronic HCV infected patients co-infected with HIV receiving HAART and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART. The HCV-HIV International Panel recommends the management of hepatotoxicity should be based on the knowledge of the mechanisms involved for each drug. Furthermore, they state that there are lower rates of liver-related mortality in coinfected patients taking HAART, even in those with end-stage liver disease, compared with patients not receiving HAART.
azaTHIOprine: (Moderate) Additive myelosuppressive effects may be seen when alpha interferons are given concurrently with other myelosuppressive agents, such as antineoplastic agents or immunosuppressives.
Bacillus Calmette-Guerin Vaccine, BCG: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient, including those receiving Interferon therapy. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Basiliximab: (Moderate) Additive myelosuppressive effects may be seen when alpha interferons are given concurrently with other myelosuppressive agents, such as antineoplastic agents or immunosuppressives.
Bictegravir; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) can both cause hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and rilpivirine can both cause hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving antiretroviral agents and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART.
Chikungunya Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient, including those receiving Interferon therapy. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Chloroquine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of chloroquine and interferons is not recommended as there is an increased risk of retinal toxicity.
Cholera Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the live cholera vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to cholera bacteria after receiving the vaccine.
Cladribine: (Moderate) Additive myelosuppressive effects may be seen when alpha interferons are given concurrently with other myelosuppressive agents, such as antineoplastic agents or immunosuppressives.
cloZAPine: (Major) It is unclear if concurrent use of other drugs known to cause neutropenia (e.g., certain antineoplastic agents) increases the risk or severity of clozapine-induced neutropenia. Because there is no strong rationale for avoiding clozapine in patients treated with these drugs, consider increased absolute neutrophil count (ANC) monitoring and consult the treating oncologist.
Darunavir: (Moderate) The concomitant use of interferons and anti-retroviral protease inhibitors should be done with caution as both can cause hepatotoxicity. Closely monitor patients for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation. Most protease inhibitors have been associated with episodes of liver toxicity. Cirrhotic chronic HCV infected patients co-infected with HIV receiving HAART and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART. The HCV-HIV International Panel recommends the management of hepatotoxicity should be based on the knowledge of the mechanisms involved for each drug. Furthermore, they state that there are lower rates of liver-related mortality in coinfected patients taking HAART, even in those with end-stage liver disease, compared with patients not receiving HAART.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) The concomitant use of interferons and anti-retroviral protease inhibitors should be done with caution as both can cause hepatotoxicity. Closely monitor patients for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation. Most protease inhibitors have been associated with episodes of liver toxicity. Cirrhotic chronic HCV infected patients co-infected with HIV receiving HAART and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART. The HCV-HIV International Panel recommends the management of hepatotoxicity should be based on the knowledge of the mechanisms involved for each drug. Furthermore, they state that there are lower rates of liver-related mortality in coinfected patients taking HAART, even in those with end-stage liver disease, compared with patients not receiving HAART.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) The concomitant use of interferons and anti-retroviral protease inhibitors should be done with caution as both can cause hepatotoxicity. Closely monitor patients for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation. Most protease inhibitors have been associated with episodes of liver toxicity. Cirrhotic chronic HCV infected patients co-infected with HIV receiving HAART and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART. The HCV-HIV International Panel recommends the management of hepatotoxicity should be based on the knowledge of the mechanisms involved for each drug. Furthermore, they state that there are lower rates of liver-related mortality in coinfected patients taking HAART, even in those with end-stage liver disease, compared with patients not receiving HAART. (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) can both cause hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART.
Dengue Tetravalent Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of the live dengue virus vaccine with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation, during coadministration of interferons (with or without ribavirin) and lamivudine. Dose reduction or discontinuation of interferon, ribavirin, or both should be considered if worsening clinical toxicities are observed, including hepatic decompensation (e.g., Child-Pugh score greater than 6).
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and rilpivirine can both cause hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving antiretroviral agents and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation, during coadministration of interferons (with or without ribavirin) and lamivudine. Dose reduction or discontinuation of interferon, ribavirin, or both should be considered if worsening clinical toxicities are observed, including hepatic decompensation (e.g., Child-Pugh score greater than 6).
Ebola Zaire Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient, including those receiving Interferon therapy. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Efavirenz: (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and efavirenz can both cause hepatotoxicity. Cirrhotic chronic HCV infected patients co-infected with HIV receiving HAART and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) can both cause hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART. (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and efavirenz can both cause hepatotoxicity. Cirrhotic chronic HCV infected patients co-infected with HIV receiving HAART and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation, during coadministration of interferons (with or without ribavirin) and lamivudine. Dose reduction or discontinuation of interferon, ribavirin, or both should be considered if worsening clinical toxicities are observed, including hepatic decompensation (e.g., Child-Pugh score greater than 6). (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and efavirenz can both cause hepatotoxicity. Cirrhotic chronic HCV infected patients co-infected with HIV receiving HAART and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) can both cause hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) can both cause hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART.
Emtricitabine: (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) can both cause hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) can both cause hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART. (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and rilpivirine can both cause hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving antiretroviral agents and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) can both cause hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART. (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and rilpivirine can both cause hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving antiretroviral agents and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) can both cause hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) can both cause hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART.
Entecavir: (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) can both cause hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART.
Estramustine: (Moderate) Additive myelosuppressive effects may be seen when alpha interferons are given concurrently with other myelosuppressive agents, such as antineoplastic agents or immunosuppressives.
Ethanol: (Major) Advise patients to avoid alcohol consumption while taking alpha interferons. Alcohol consumption increases the risk for hepatic injury.
Fidanacogene Elaparvovec: (Moderate) Monitor for hepatoxicity during concomitant use of fidanacogene elaparvovec and interferon alfa. Both medications have been associated with hepatic injury and concomitant use may increase the risk for hepatotoxicity. Hepatic injury may also lead to decreased fidanacogene elaparvovec efficacy.
Filgrastim, G-CSF: (Major) Filgrastim induces the proliferation of neutrophil-progenitor cells, and, because antineoplastic agents exert toxic effects against rapidly growing cells, filgrastim is contraindicated for use during the 24 hours before or after cytotoxic chemotherapy.
Fludarabine: (Moderate) Additive myelosuppressive effects may be seen when alpha interferons are given concurrently with other myelosuppressive agents, such as antineoplastic agents or immunosuppressives.
Folate analogs: (Moderate) Additive myelosuppressive effects may be seen when alpha interferons are given concurrently with other myelosuppressive agents, such as antineoplastic agents or immunosuppressives.
Fosamprenavir: (Moderate) The concomitant use of interferons and anti-retroviral protease inhibitors should be done with caution as both can cause hepatotoxicity. Closely monitor patients for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation. Most protease inhibitors have been associated with episodes of liver toxicity. Cirrhotic chronic HCV infected patients co-infected with HIV receiving HAART and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART. The HCV-HIV International Panel recommends the management of hepatotoxicity should be based on the knowledge of the mechanisms involved for each drug. Furthermore, they state that there are lower rates of liver-related mortality in coinfected patients taking HAART, even in those with end-stage liver disease, compared with patients not receiving HAART.
Hydroxyurea: (Moderate) Additive myelosuppressive effects may be seen when alpha interferons are given concurrently with other myelosuppressive agents, such as antineoplastic agents or immunosuppressives.
Ibritumomab Tiuxetan: (Moderate) Additive myelosuppressive effects may be seen when alpha interferons are given concurrently with other myelosuppressive agents, such as antineoplastic agents or immunosuppressives.
Imatinib: (Moderate) Additive myelosuppressive effects may be seen when alpha interferons are given concurrently with other myelosuppressive agents, such as antineoplastic agents or immunosuppressives.
Intranasal Influenza Vaccine: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient, including those receiving Interferon therapy. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
lamiVUDine, 3TC: (Moderate) Monitor for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation, during coadministration of interferons (with or without ribavirin) and lamivudine. Dose reduction or discontinuation of interferon, ribavirin, or both should be considered if worsening clinical toxicities are observed, including hepatic decompensation (e.g., Child-Pugh score greater than 6).
lamiVUDine, 3TC; Zidovudine, ZDV: (Major) Use interferons and zidovudine together with caution. Closely monitor patients for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hematologic effects and hepatic decompensation, and manage as recommended for the individual therapies. Coadministration of alpha interferons may increase the hematologic toxicity of zidovudine. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) are also associated with hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART. Interferon therapy may also reduce zidovudine clearance. (Moderate) Monitor for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation, during coadministration of interferons (with or without ribavirin) and lamivudine. Dose reduction or discontinuation of interferon, ribavirin, or both should be considered if worsening clinical toxicities are observed, including hepatic decompensation (e.g., Child-Pugh score greater than 6).
lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation, during coadministration of interferons (with or without ribavirin) and lamivudine. Dose reduction or discontinuation of interferon, ribavirin, or both should be considered if worsening clinical toxicities are observed, including hepatic decompensation (e.g., Child-Pugh score greater than 6).
Live Vaccines: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient, including those receiving Interferon therapy. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Lomustine, CCNU: (Moderate) Additive myelosuppressive effects may be seen when alpha interferons are given concurrently with other myelosuppressive agents, such as antineoplastic agents or immunosuppressives.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) The concomitant use of interferons and anti-retroviral protease inhibitors should be done with caution as both can cause hepatotoxicity. Closely monitor patients for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation. Most protease inhibitors have been associated with episodes of liver toxicity. Cirrhotic chronic HCV infected patients co-infected with HIV receiving HAART and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART. The HCV-HIV International Panel recommends the management of hepatotoxicity should be based on the knowledge of the mechanisms involved for each drug. Furthermore, they state that there are lower rates of liver-related mortality in coinfected patients taking HAART, even in those with end-stage liver disease, compared with patients not receiving HAART.
Measles Virus; Mumps Virus; Rubella Virus; Varicella Virus Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient, including those receiving Interferon therapy. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Measles/Mumps/Rubella Vaccines, MMR: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient, including those receiving Interferon therapy. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Mercaptopurine, 6-MP: (Moderate) Additive myelosuppressive effects may be seen when alpha interferons are given concurrently with other myelosuppressive agents, such as antineoplastic agents or immunosuppressives.
Methotrexate: (Moderate) Additive myelosuppressive effects may be seen when alpha interferons are given concurrently with other myelosuppressive agents, such as antineoplastic agents or immunosuppressives.
Methoxsalen: (Moderate) Additive myelosuppressive effects may be seen when alpha interferons are given concurrently with other myelosuppressive agents, such as antineoplastic agents or immunosuppressives.
mitoXANTRONE: (Moderate) Additive myelosuppressive effects may be seen when alpha interferons are given concurrently with other myelosuppressive agents, such as antineoplastic agents or immunosuppressives.
Nelfinavir: (Moderate) The concomitant use of interferons and anti-retroviral protease inhibitors should be done with caution as both can cause hepatotoxicity. Closely monitor patients for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation. Most protease inhibitors have been associated with episodes of liver toxicity. Cirrhotic chronic HCV infected patients co-infected with HIV receiving HAART and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART. The HCV-HIV International Panel recommends the management of hepatotoxicity should be based on the knowledge of the mechanisms involved for each drug. Furthermore, they state that there are lower rates of liver-related mortality in coinfected patients taking HAART, even in those with end-stage liver disease, compared with patients not receiving HAART.
Nevirapine: (Major) The concomitant use of interferons and nevirapine should be done with caution as both can cause hepatotoxicity. Closely monitor patients for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation. Nevirapine may cause liver damage in the context of hypersensitivity reactions or by direct toxic effects. Cirrhotic chronic HCV infected patients co-infected with HIV receiving HAART and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART. Patients with signs or symptoms of hepatitis, or with increased transaminases combined with rash or other systemic symptoms, must discontinue nevirapine and seek medical evaluation immediately.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) The concomitant use of interferons and anti-retroviral protease inhibitors should be done with caution as both can cause hepatotoxicity. Closely monitor patients for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation. Most protease inhibitors have been associated with episodes of liver toxicity. Cirrhotic chronic HCV infected patients co-infected with HIV receiving HAART and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART. The HCV-HIV International Panel recommends the management of hepatotoxicity should be based on the knowledge of the mechanisms involved for each drug. Furthermore, they state that there are lower rates of liver-related mortality in coinfected patients taking HAART, even in those with end-stage liver disease, compared with patients not receiving HAART.
Pegfilgrastim: (Major) Pegfilgrastim induces the proliferation of neutrophil-progenitor cells, and because antineoplastic agents exert toxic effects against rapidly growing cells, pegfilgrastim should not be given 14 days before or for 24 hours after cytotoxic chemotherapy.
PEMEtrexed: (Moderate) Additive myelosuppressive effects may be seen when alpha interferons are given concurrently with other myelosuppressive agents, such as antineoplastic agents or immunosuppressives.
Pentostatin: (Moderate) Additive myelosuppressive effects may be seen when alpha interferons are given concurrently with other myelosuppressive agents, such as antineoplastic agents or immunosuppressives.
Pexidartinib: (Moderate) Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if pexidartinib is coadministered with interferon alfa. Avoid concurrent use in patients with increased serum transaminases, total bilirubin, or direct bilirubin (more than ULN) or active liver or biliary tract disease.
PRALAtrexate: (Moderate) Additive myelosuppressive effects may be seen when alpha interferons are given concurrently with other myelosuppressive agents, such as antineoplastic agents or immunosuppressives.
Pretomanid: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with interferon alfa, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Protease inhibitors: (Moderate) The concomitant use of interferons and anti-retroviral protease inhibitors should be done with caution as both can cause hepatotoxicity. Closely monitor patients for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation. Most protease inhibitors have been associated with episodes of liver toxicity. Cirrhotic chronic HCV infected patients co-infected with HIV receiving HAART and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART. The HCV-HIV International Panel recommends the management of hepatotoxicity should be based on the knowledge of the mechanisms involved for each drug. Furthermore, they state that there are lower rates of liver-related mortality in coinfected patients taking HAART, even in those with end-stage liver disease, compared with patients not receiving HAART.
Purine analogs: (Moderate) Additive myelosuppressive effects may be seen when alpha interferons are given concurrently with other myelosuppressive agents, such as antineoplastic agents or immunosuppressives.
Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Use together with caution and monitor for hepatic decompensation. Interferons and rilpivirine can both cause hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving antiretroviral agents and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART.
Riluzole: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hepatic injury during coadministration of riluzole and interferon alfa. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hepatotoxicity. Discontinue riluzole if clinical signs of liver dysfunction are present.
Ritonavir: (Moderate) The concomitant use of interferons and anti-retroviral protease inhibitors should be done with caution as both can cause hepatotoxicity. Closely monitor patients for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation. Most protease inhibitors have been associated with episodes of liver toxicity. Cirrhotic chronic HCV infected patients co-infected with HIV receiving HAART and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART. The HCV-HIV International Panel recommends the management of hepatotoxicity should be based on the knowledge of the mechanisms involved for each drug. Furthermore, they state that there are lower rates of liver-related mortality in coinfected patients taking HAART, even in those with end-stage liver disease, compared with patients not receiving HAART.
Rotavirus Vaccine: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient, including those receiving Interferon therapy. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Saquinavir: (Moderate) The concomitant use of interferons and anti-retroviral protease inhibitors should be done with caution as both can cause hepatotoxicity. Closely monitor patients for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation. Most protease inhibitors have been associated with episodes of liver toxicity. Cirrhotic chronic HCV infected patients co-infected with HIV receiving HAART and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART. The HCV-HIV International Panel recommends the management of hepatotoxicity should be based on the knowledge of the mechanisms involved for each drug. Furthermore, they state that there are lower rates of liver-related mortality in coinfected patients taking HAART, even in those with end-stage liver disease, compared with patients not receiving HAART.
SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) vaccines: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) mRNA Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) Recombinant Spike Protein Nanoparticle Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
Smallpox and Monkeypox Vaccine, Live, Nonreplicating: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient, including those receiving Interferon therapy. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Smallpox and Mpox (Vaccinia) Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient, including those receiving Interferon therapy. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Tbo-Filgrastim: (Major) Filgrastim induces the proliferation of neutrophil-progenitor cells, and, because antineoplastic agents exert toxic effects against rapidly growing cells, filgrastim is contraindicated for use during the 24 hours before or after cytotoxic chemotherapy.
Theophylline, Aminophylline: (Major) Alpha interferons, when administered systemically, may decrease the clearance of aminophylline resulting in increased plasma concentrations. Concomitant use may result in a significant increase in theophylline concentrations due to reduced aminophylline clearance. In studies, increases in theophylline levels of 25% up to 100% have occurred. Reductions in CYP1A2 activity have been noted with various alpha interferons, and likely provide a mechanism for the interaction. Monitor theophylline concentrations and for signs and symptoms of toxicity when interferons are used concomitantly; consider appropriate dose adjustments as clinically indicated. (Major) Alpha interferons, when administered systemically, may decrease the clearance of theophylline resulting in increased plasma concentrations. Concomitant use may result in a significant increase in theophylline concentrations due to reduced theophylline clearance. In studies, increases in theophylline levels of 25% up to 100% have occurred. Reductions in CYP1A2 activity have been noted with various alpha interferons, and likely provide a mechanism for the interaction. Monitor theophylline concentrations and for signs and symptoms of theophylline toxicity when interferons are used concomitantly; consider appropriate dose adjustments as clinically indicated.
Thioguanine, 6-TG: (Moderate) Additive myelosuppressive effects may be seen when alpha interferons are given concurrently with other myelosuppressive agents, such as antineoplastic agents or immunosuppressives.
Tipranavir: (Moderate) The concomitant use of interferons and anti-retroviral protease inhibitors should be done with caution as both can cause hepatotoxicity. Closely monitor patients for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hepatic decompensation. Most protease inhibitors have been associated with episodes of liver toxicity. Cirrhotic chronic HCV infected patients co-infected with HIV receiving HAART and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART. The HCV-HIV International Panel recommends the management of hepatotoxicity should be based on the knowledge of the mechanisms involved for each drug. Furthermore, they state that there are lower rates of liver-related mortality in coinfected patients taking HAART, even in those with end-stage liver disease, compared with patients not receiving HAART.
Typhoid Vaccine: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient, including those receiving Interferon therapy. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Varicella Virus Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient, including those receiving Interferon therapy. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Vigabatrin: (Major) Vigabatrin is associated with vision loss. The drug should not be used with interferons, which are associated with a potential for serious ophthalmic effects (e.g., retinopathy, optic neuritis, visual impairment), unless the benefit of treatment clearly outweighs the risks.
Yellow Fever Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient, including those receiving Interferon therapy. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Zidovudine, ZDV: (Major) Use interferons and zidovudine together with caution. Closely monitor patients for treatment-associated toxicities, especially hematologic effects and hepatic decompensation, and manage as recommended for the individual therapies. Coadministration of alpha interferons may increase the hematologic toxicity of zidovudine. Interferons and anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) are also associated with hepatotoxicity. Patients with chronic, cirrhotic HCV co-infected with HIV receiving NRTIs and alpha interferons appear to be at increased risk for hepatic decompensation (e.g., Childs-Pugh score 6 or more) compared to patients not receiving HAART. Interferon therapy may also reduce zidovudine clearance.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  NOTE: Moderate to severe adverse experiences may require dosage regimen modification or interferon alfa-n3 cessation.NOTE: Acute, serious hypersensitivity reactions such as urticaria, angioedema, bronchoconstriction, and anaphylaxis have not been observed in patients receiving interferon alfa-n3. If an acute, serious hypersensitivity reaction develops, immediately discontinue drug administration and institute appropriate medical therapy. Instruct patients to get immediate medical care for any signs of hypersensitivity reactions including hives, generalized urticaria, chest tightness, wheezing, hypotension, and anaphylaxis.Adverse reactions to interferon alfa-n3 intralesional therapy consisted primarily of 'flu-like' symptoms (i.e., arthralgia, chills, fatigue, fever, headache, malaise, and/or myalgia), which were mostly mild to moderate and did not interfere with treatment. These symptoms occurred in up to 30% of patients after the first treatment with interferon alfa-n3. The frequency of the flu-like symptoms abated with repeated dosing, so the incidence of these adverse reactions was similar to placebo after 3—4 weeks. Acetaminophen lessened the severity of these symptoms.Other adverse reactions noted with intralesional therapy with interferon alfa-n3 include dizziness, dyspepsia/pyrosis (heartburn), back pain, nausea/vomiting, and generalized pruritus.Myelosuppressive effects have been seen with intralesional administration of interferon alfa-n3, but it is less than that seen with systemic administration. Leukopenia has been reported in 11% of patients treated with intralesional interferon alfa-n3.In thirty-one cancer patients treated with intramuscular interferon alfa-n3 at doses of 3 million IU, 9 million IU, or 15 million IU, the following adverse reactions occurred in addition to those that occur with intralesional administration: chest pain, diarrhea, hypoglycemia, stomatitis, blurred vision, hypotension, and anorexia.No neutralizing antibodies to interferon alfa-n3 have been reported.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
 
NOTE: Moderate to severe adverse experiences may require dosage regimen modification or interferon alfa-n3 cessation.
 
No neutralizing antibodies to interferon alfa-n3 have been reported.
    Headline
    hypotension, wheezing
    General Information
    NOTE: Acute, serious hypersensitivity reactions such as urticaria, angioedema, bronchoconstriction, and anaphylaxis have not been observed in patients receiving interferon alfa-n3. If an acute, serious hypersensitivity reaction develops, immediately discontinue drug administration and institute appropriate medical therapy. Instruct patients to get immediate medical care for any signs of hypersensitivity reactions including hives, generalized urticaria, chest tightness, wheezing, hypotension, and anaphylaxis.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      wheezing
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    arthralgia, chills, fatigue, fever, headache, malaise, myalgia
    General Information
    Interferon alfa-n3 was administered and adverse reactions evaluated in 202 patients with condylomata acuminata receiving intralesional (IL) administration, and 31 patients with cancer receiving systemic intramuscular administration. Adverse reactions to interferon alfa-n3 therapy consisted primarily of 'flu-like' symptoms such as arthralgia (5% IL; 3% to 10% IM), chills (14% IL; 45% to 87% IM), fatigue (14% IL; 6% IM), fever (30% to 40% IL; 55% to 81% IM), headache (31% IL; 3% to 10% IM), malaise (9% IL; 54% to 65% IM), and/or myalgia (30% to 45% IL; 13% to 16% IM); these symptoms were mostly mild to moderate and did not interfere with treatment. The frequency of the flu-like symptoms abated with repeated dosing, so the incidence of these adverse reactions was similar to placebo after 3—4 weeks. Acetaminophen lessened the severity of these symptoms.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      chills
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      malaise
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      myalgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    back pain, chest pain (unspecified), muscle cramps
    General Information
    Musculoskeletal adverse reactions associated with interferon alpha-n3 intralesional (IL) and systemic therapy (IM) include back pain (4% IL), chest pain (unspecified) (6% to 10% IM), stiffness (1% IL) or stiff shoulders (3% IM), muscle soreness (3% IM), and muscle cramps (1% IM).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      back pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      muscle cramps
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      chest pain (unspecified)
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    leukopenia
    General Information
    Myelosuppressive effects have been seen with intralesional administration of interferon alfa-n3, but it is less than that seen with systemic administration. Leukopenia (decreased WBC) has been reported in 11% of patients treated with intralesional interferon alfa-n3.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      leukopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anorexia, constipation, diarrhea, dysgeusia, dyspepsia, hyperesthesia, hypersalivation, nausea, pyrosis (heartburn), stomatitis, vomiting, xerostomia
    General Information
    The following gastrointestinal adverse reactions occurred in patients treated with intralesional (IL) administration and intramuscular administration of interferon alfa-n3:  diarrhea (2% IL; 3% to 6% IM), sore mouth/stomatitis (6% IM), dysgeusia (1% IL), hypersalivation (1% IL), nausea (4% IL; 16% to 48% IM), vomiting (3% IL; 10% to 29% IM), tongue hyperesthesia (1% IL), xerostomia (IM), mucositis (IM), constipation (IM), dyspepsia/pyrosis (heartburn) (3% IL) and anorexia (45% to 68% IM).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      stomatitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      dysgeusia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypersalivation
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      dyspepsia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pyrosis (heartburn)
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperesthesia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    blurred vision, non-arteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy, ocular pain, visual impairment
    General Information
    Limited data from case reports indicate that there may be an association between therapy with interferon alfa, such as interferon alfa-n3, and the development of non-arteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy (NAION). In these cases, unilateral or bilateral visual impairment began 1—40 weeks after initiation of interferon alfa therapy (specifically, peginterferon alpha-2a). Of the 17 cases with follow-up information available, 9 demonstrated improvement after discontinuing interferon alfa therapy and 1 demonstrated improvement with continued therapy. Visual impairment also occurred in 1% of patients administered intralesional interferon alfa-n3. Visual adverse reactions observed in patients treated with intramuscular interferon alfa-n3 include ocular pain (3%) and blurred vision (3% to 6%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      non-arteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      visual impairment
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      ocular pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      blurred vision
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    confusion, depression, diaphoresis, dizziness, drowsiness, heat intolerance, hot flashes, insomnia, paresthesias
    General Information
    Nervous system adverse reaction reported in patients treated with intralesional (IL) and intramuscular (IM) interferon alfa-n3 include dizziness (9% IL), insomnia (2% IL), paresthesias (1% IL), heat intolerance (1% IL), hot flashes (1% IL), nervousness (1% IL), drowsiness (3% to 10% IM), numbness (3% IM), confusion (3% IM), light-headedness (3% IM), depression (2% IL; 3% IM), diaphoresis (2% IL; 3% IM) and vasovagal reaction (2% IL).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      confusion
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      heat intolerance
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hot flashes
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      paresthesias
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diaphoresis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      depression
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    bleeding, cough, epistaxis, pharyngitis
    General Information
    Respiratory adverse reactions that occurred in 1% of patients administered intralesional interferon alfa-n3 include pharyngitis, nose bleeding (epistaxis), and throat tightness. Nose/sinus drainage occurred in 2% of patients receiving IL interferon alfa-n3. Cough was reported in at least one patient administered intramuscular interferon alfa-n3.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      bleeding
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      pharyngitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      epistaxis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    edema, flushing, injection site reaction, maculopapular rash, photosensitivity, pruritus
    General Information
    Injection site reaction (mainly soreness) occurred in 10% of those receiving intramuscular (IM) interferon alfa-n3; for those receiving intralesional (IL) interferon alfa-n3, injection site reactions were significantly less than placebo (12% vs 26%). Other skin-related adverse reactions associated with interferon alfa-n3 therapy include pruritus (2% IL), maculopapular rash on neck (1% IL), photosensitivity (1%), flushing/flushed face (IM), and edema (IM).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      injection site reaction
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      photosensitivity
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      maculopapular rash
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      flushing
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    dysuria, polydipsia
    General Information
    Dysuria and polydipsia were observed in 1% of patients administered intralesional interferon alfa-n3 therapy.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dysuria
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      polydipsia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    tinnitus
    General Information
    Tinnitus was reported with interferon alfa-n3 given intramuscularly.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      tinnitus
      Severity
      Minor

Description
  Text
  NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
 
Interferon alfa-n3 is a formulation of purified, natural, human interferon (IFN) alpha proteins derived from human leukocytes. Alpha and beta IFNs are structurally and functionally related. The alpha IFNs include more than 25 subtypes; interferon alfa-3n consists of IFN alpha proteins comprising approximately 166 amino acids in molecular weights from 16 to 27 Kd. The specific activity of interferon alfa-n3 is >= 200 million International Units/mg protein. Interferon alfa-n3 is manufactured from pooled units of human leukocytes that have been induced by incomplete infection with a murine virus (Sendai virus) to produce interferon alfa-n3. The manufacturing process includes immunoaffinity chromotography with a murine antibody and gel filtration chromotography. In addition, the manufacturing process contains steps that have been shown to inactivate viruses, and there has been no evidence of infection transmission during clinical trials. Interferon alfa-n3 is used in the treatment of condylomata acuminata (venereal or genital warts). Overall, 80% of patients treated with interferon alfa-n3 had a complete or partial resolution of genital warts compared to only 44% of those treated with placebo. Interferon alfa-n3 has also been used to treat chronic myelogenous leukemia and hepatitis C in patients who have developed antibodies to or are refractory to other interferon alfa products. The FDA approved interferon alfa-n3 for the treatment of venereal warts in 1990.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
 
Interferon alfa-n3 acts similarly to native interferon alpha. Endogenous alpha-interferons (IFNs) are secreted by leukocytes (e.g., macrophages, B lymphocytes, and non-B non-T lymphocytes) in response to viral infection or various synthetic and biological inducers. All alpha-IFNs share common biologic activities generated by the binding of interferon to the cell-surface receptor. Although the exact mechanism of action is not fully understood, interferon binding to the cell surface receptor is followed by activation of tyrosine kinases, which leads to the production of several IFN-stimulated enzymes such as 2'-5'-oligoadenylate synthetase (2'-5'-OAS) and beta2-microglobulin. These and possibly other IFN-stimulated enzymes are thought to be responsible for the pleiotropic biologic effects of alpha-IFNs, which include antiviral, antiproliferative and immunomodulatory effects, cellular differentiation, regulation of cell surface major histocompatibility antigen expression (HLA class I), and cytokine induction.
 
Antiviral effects: Interferon exerts antiviral effects by augmenting the production and/or release of specific enzymes. Interferon-induced intracellular enzymes such as 2'5'-OAS and protein kinase contribute to inhibition of viral replication by activating endoribonucleases that cleave single-stranded viral RNA. Thus, translation of viral proteins is inhibited. The activity of IFN-induced enzymes depends on the presence of double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) formed during viral replication. It has been suggested that the antiviral activity of IFNs may be related, in part, to an effect on dsRNA. Interferon-induced enzymes may also inhibit viral penetration and uncoating, and/or viral assembly and release. Expression of major histocompatibility antigens by IFNs may also contribute to antiviral activity by enhancing the lytic effects of cytotoxic T lymphocytes.
 
A wide range of viruses, particularly RNA viruses, are sensitive to the antiviral actions of IFN. Alpha interferons are generally active against the following viruses in vitro: adenovirus; coronavirus; encephalomyocarditis virus; hepatitis B virus; hepatitis C virus (HCV); hepatitis D virus; herpes simplex virus type 1; herpes simplex virus type 2; human immunodeficiency virus (HIV); papillomavirus; poliovirus; rhinovirus; vaccinia virus; varicella-zoster virus; vesicular stomatitis virus; human T-lymphotropic virus type I (HTLV-I). In chronic hepatitis C, INF treatment is associated with normalization of ALT and serum HCV RNA, as well as improvement in liver histopathology, in responding patients. The HCV genotype 1 is more resistant to interferon alfa treatment than other viral genotypes; 75% of persons in US infected with HCV carry this genotype. Many patients with a biochemical and virologic relapse 1-2 months after stopping IFN therapy.
 
Antineoplastic effects: The antineoplastic activity of interferons may result from a direct antiproliferative effect on the tumor cell and/or the ability of IFN to induce a host response to the tumor (e.g., immunomodulatory effects). Alpha IFNs exert a cytostatic effect on tumor cells, slowing the rate of cell proliferation until cell survival is threatened. The mechanism(s) of antiproliferative activity has not been fully elucidated; several effects may be involved, including the ability of interferons to enhance or inhibit the synthesis of specific proteins, modify cell surface antigen expression, and/or modulate the immune system. Interferon has been shown to prolong all phases of the cell cycle and induce cellular differentiation by promoting cells to enter the nonproliferative G0 (resting) phase. This differentiation effect is thought to be a key mechanism in the treatment of hairy cell leukemia. Inhibition of tumor cell proliferation may also be related to decreased transcription and expression of several oncogenes. Immunomodulatory effects that may contribute to the antitumor activity of interferons include activation of cytotoxic T cells and/or activation of natural killer (NK) cells. Natural killer cells are lymphocytes that recognize cell surface antigens and lyse certain types of tumor cells. The cytotoxic activity of NK cells against tumor cells can be increased following exposure to interferon, although this effect is highly variable. Interferons may increase the proportion of NK cells that become cytotoxic and/or decrease the time needed for NK cells to reach their maximum cytotoxic effect. In addition, interferons activate macrophages and monocytes, resulting in increased phagocytic activity and enhanced cytotoxicity against tumor cells and other target cells. Alpha interferons have been shown to stimulate production of cytokines such as interleukin (IL)-1beta and IL-1ra (an IL-1 receptor antagonist); thus, alpha-IFNs may affect the inflammatory response.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Other Route(s)
    Description
    Intralesional Route
Following intralesional injection, plasma concentrations of interferon alfa-n3 were below the level of detection. Minor systemic effects were noted indicating that some of the injected interferon entered the systemic circulation.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Alfa interferons are not cleared by hemodialysis.
  Text
  NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
 
Interferon alfa-n3 is currently only approved for intralesional use; however, the drug has been given subcutaneously and intramuscularly. Pharmacokinetic information is unavailable for interferon alfa-n3.

Administration
  General Information
  NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
 
For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
 
NOTE: Variations in dosage and adverse reactions exist among different subtypes of interferon alfa. Therefore, do not use different subtypes of interferon in a single treatment regimen.
 
NOTE: Each vial contains 1 mL of interferon alfa-n3 solution, and each mL contains 5 million International Units of interferon alfa-n3.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Other Injectable Administration
      Description
      Intralesional Administration
Interferon alfa-n3 should be injected at the base of each venereal wart, preferably using a 30-gauge needle.
For large warts, interferon alfa-n3 may be injected at several points around the periphery of the wart, using a total dose of 0.05 mL per wart.
    Name
    Injectable Administration
    Description
    Interferon alfa-n3 is administered intralesionally.
Visually inspect parenteral products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    0.05 mL intralesionally per wart twice weekly.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
