=== Azilsartan/Chlorthalidone — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 3748)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Azilsartan; chlorthalidone is an oral combination product for the treatment of hypertension.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 40 mg/day PO azilsartan; 25 mg/day PO chlorthalidone.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): hypotension, orthostatic hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, hypokalemia, hyponatremia, azotemia, oliguria, renal failure (unspecified), asthenia, dizziness, fatigue, headache

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. According to the manufacturer, chlorthalidone is contraindicated in individuals with sulfonamide hypersensitivity.

AZILSARTAN/CHLORTHALIDONE

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Edarbyclor

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of hypertension, either alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents

Oral dosage
Adults


40 mg azilsartan; 12.5 mg chlorthalidone PO once daily is the recommended starting dose. Most of the antihypertensive effect is usually seen within 1 to 2 weeks. If blood pressure has not reached goal after 2 to 4 weeks of therapy, the dosage may be increased to 40 mg azilsartan/25 mg chlorthalidone PO. Doses above 40 mg azilsartan/25 mg chlorthalidone are not likely to be effective. The combination product may be beneficial for patients not adequately controlled on monotherapy with an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) or diuretic. Patients not controlled with 80 mg/day azilsartan or chlorthalidone 25 mg/day may see an additional blood pressure reduction of 13/6 mm Hg and 12/7 mm Hg, respectively, when switched to 40 mg azilsartan/12.5 mg chlorthalidone of the combination product.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. According to the manufacturer, chlorthalidone is contraindicated in individuals with sulfonamide hypersensitivity. However, while thiazide-type diuretics, such as chlorthalidone, are sulfonamide derivatives, sulfonamide cross-sensitivity has rarely been documented. Sulfonamide antibiotics contain the N4-aromatic amine (arylamine) and the N1-aromatic heterocyclic ring which are believed to be involved in the development of IgE-hypersensitivity reactions; thiazide-type diuretics, such as chlorthalidone, do not contain either. A relationship between sulfonamide hypersensitivity and allergic reactions with non-arylamine sulfonamide derivatives has not been definitively established and remains controversial. It has been theorized that individuals with a documented sulfonamide allergy may have a predisposition for the development of allergic drug reactions. Sensitivity reactions may occur in patients with or without a history of allergy or bronchial asthma.

Treatment-Related Restrictions of Use

Individuals with heart failure or post-myocardial infarction treated with angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) therapy commonly experience blood pressure reduction. A transient hypotensive response is not a contraindication to further treatment, which usually can be continued once blood pressure has stabilized.

ACE inhibitor induced angioedema, ARB induced angioedema


Avoid use of azilsartan; chlorthalidone in individuals with a history of ARB induced angioedema. Exercise caution when using azilsartan; chlorthalidone in individuals with a history of ACE inhibitor induced angioedema. While angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) have been suggested as potential alternatives because they are less likely than angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors to precipitate angioedema, anaphylactic reactions and angioedema have been reported in individuals receiving ARBs, including in individuals with a prior history of ACE inhibitor induced angioedema. ARBs do not cause bradykinin accumulation, which may account for the reduction in the risk of angioedema. Individuals with a history of angioedema with an ACE inhibitor may be started on an ARB 6 weeks after discontinuation of the ACE inhibitor. Since Black people are at increased risk of angioedema, ARBs may be preferred over ACE inhibitors in this population.


hyponatremia, hypovolemia, sympathectomy


In individuals with an activated renin-angiotensin system, such as individuals with hypovolemia or hyponatremia (e.g., those receiving high doses of diuretics), symptomatic hypotension may occur with azilsartan; chlorthalidone. Correct volume or salt depletion prior to azilsartan; chlorthalidone administration, or initiate treatment under close medical supervision. A transient hypotensive response is not a contraindication to further treatment, which can usually be continued following blood pressure stabilization. The antihypertensive effects of thiazides may be enhanced in individual predisposed to orthostatic hypotension, including post-sympathectomy patient; therefore, use azilsartan; chlorthalidone with caution in these individuals.


anuria, renal disease


Azilsartan; hydrochlorothiazide is contraindicated in individuals with anuria and should be used with caution in individuals with renal disease. Drug-induced hypovolemia can precipitate azotemia or acute kidney injury in individuals with renal disease or impairment. Individuals whose renal function may depend on the activity of the renin-angiotensin system (e.g., individuals with renal artery stenosis, chronic renal disease, severe heart failure, or hypovolemia) may be at risk for developing acute renal failure on azilsartan; chlorthalidone therapy. Consider withholding or discontinuing therapy in individuals who develop a clinically significant decrease in renal function while receiving azilsartan; hydrochlorothiazide. Monitor renal function periodically in individuals receiving therapy. Dialysis is also a risk factor for symptomatic hypotension with ARBs. Guidelines recommend use of loop diuretics and not thiazide diuretics for the treatment of hypertension in individuals with moderate-to-severe chronic kidney disease (GFR less than 30 mL/minute/1.73 m2), as thiazide diuretics are generally considered to be ineffective in this setting.


hypercalcemia, hyperkalemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, vomiting


Correct any serum electrolyte imbalance, such as hypochloremia, hypokalemia, hyperkalemia, hypomagnesemia, hyponatremia, and hypercalcemia, prior to starting azilsartan; chlorthalidone therapy. Angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) can cause hyperkalemia. Risk factors for the development of hyperkalemia include renal insufficiency, diabetes, and concomitant use of potassium-sparing diuretics, potassium supplements, and/or potassium-containing salt substitutes. Chlorthalidone therapy is associated with reductions in sodium, chloride, magnesium, and potassium concentrations. Individuals who are vomiting excessively or receiving parenteral fluids may be at a higher risk for electrolyte imbalances. Due to pharmacological actions of the combination of the ARB and diuretic, azilsartan may attenuate the effect of chlorthalidone on potassium concentrations. Dilutional hyponatremia may occur in individuals with edema exposed to hot weather. Chlorthalidone also decreases urinary calcium excretion and may cause hypercalcemia. Monitor serum electrolyte concentrations and fluid balance periodically during azilsartan; chlorthalidone therapy.


hepatic cirrhosis, hepatic failure


Chlorthalidone-induced fluctuations in serum electrolyte concentration may precipitate hepatic coma in susceptible individuals. Therefore, use azilsartan; chlorthalidone with caution in individuals with progressive hepatic disease or hepatic failure. Hypokalemia may develop with rapid diuresis, severe hepatic cirrhosis, or during concomitant use of corticosteroids.


major surgery


Due to renin-angiotensin system blockade, individuals treated with angiotensin II receptor blockers and undergoing major surgery and anesthesia may experience hypotension, which is very rarely severe, such that it may require the use of intravenous fluids and vasopressors.


embryo-fetal toxicity, people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk


Counsel people who may become pregnant about the reproductive risk and embryo-fetal toxicity associated with medications that affect the renin-angiotensin system (RAS), such as ACE inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Use of RAS inhibitors during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy is associated with reduced fetal renal function and increased risks of fetal and neonatal morbidity and mortality.


diabetes mellitus, diabetes when coadministered with certain medications


Azilsartan; chlorthalidone is contraindicated in individuals with diabetes when coadministered with certain medications, specifically aliskiren. Carefully monitor blood and/or urine glucose levels in individuals with diabetes mellitus who are receiving chlorthalidone. Hyperglycemia, reduced glucose tolerance, altered glucose tolerance, and glycosuria can occur during chlorthalidone therapy; adjust dose of antidiabetic drugs as necessary. Although hyperglycemia did occur, chlorthalidone has been shown to reduce cardiovascular disease events in elderly diabetic individuals with isolated systolic hypertension.


gout, hyperuricemia


Use caution when azilsartan; chlorthalidone is administered to individuals with gout or hyperuricemia. Thiazide diuretics, such as chlorthalidone, have been reported to reduce uric acid clearance, which may cause or exacerbate hyperuricemia and precipitate gout in susceptible patients. Monitor individuals with a history of acute gout unless they are receiving uric acid lowering therapy.


breast-feeding


Use azilsartan; chlorthalidone with caution during breast-feeding. There is limited information regarding the presence of azilsartan in human milk, its effects on the breastfed child, or its effects on milk production. Due to low concentrations in human milk, guidelines consider the ACE inhibitors captopril and enalapril to be compatible with breast-feeding unless high doses are required. Benazepril and quinapril are also excreted in low quantities into human milk and have been suggested as options during breast-feeding. Thiazide-like diuretics, like chlorthalidone, are excreted into human milk. Some thiazide diuretics have been used off-label to suppress lactation, and should be used with caution during the establishment of breast-feeding. Chlorthalidone has been shown to decrease milk supply, and alternatives, such as chlorothiazide, furosemide, or hydrochlorothiazide, may be preferred.


systemic lupus erythematosus


Use azilsartan; chlorthalidone with caution in individuals with a history of systemic lupus erythematosus. Exacerbation of systemic lupus erythematosus has been reported during treatment with thiazide diuretics, which are structurally similar to chlorthalidone.


glaucoma, narrow iridocorneal angles


Use azilsartan; chlorthalidone with caution in individuals with narrow iridocorneal angles or glaucoma. Sulfonamide or sulfonamide-derivative drug therapies may cause an idiosyncratic reaction resulting in acute closed-angle glaucoma and increased intraocular pressure with or without noticeable acute myopic shift and/or choroidal effusions. Risk factors for developing acute angle-closure glaucoma may include a history of sulfonamide hypersensitivity or penicillin hypersensitivity. Prompt medical or surgical treatments may be necessary if the intraocular pressure remains uncontrolled.


children, infants, neonates, premature neonates


Use of azilsartan is not recommended in children younger than 2 years. It is not known whether post-natal use of angiotensin receptor blockers in neonates, infants, and children younger than 2 years, before maturation of kidney function is complete, has a long-term deleterious effect on the kidney. Nephrogenesis is thought to be complete around birth; however, maturation of other aspects of kidney function, such as glomerular filtration and tubular function, may continue until approximately 2 years of age. The Key Potentially Inappropriate Drugs in Pediatrics (KIDs) list includes azilsartan as a potentially inappropriate medication for use in premature neonates and neonates and use should be avoided. If avoidance is not possible, use azilsartan; chlorthalidone with caution and appropriate monitoring.


geriatric


Greater sensitivity to the usual dosage of azilsartan; chlorthalidone may occur in geriatric adults, and care should be taken in initial dose selection. In general, initial doses should be at the low end of the dosage range to reflect the greater frequency of decreased hepatic, renal or cardiac function and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy. Thiazides may worsen dilutional hyponatremia, and an increased risk of falls has been reported for older adult adults receiving thiazide-type diuretics. According to the Beers Criteria, diuretics are considered potentially inappropriate medications (PIMs) in geriatric patients and should be used with caution due to the potential for causing or exacerbating SIADH or hyponatremia; sodium levels should be closely monitored when starting or changing dosages of diuretics in older adults.


preeclampsia, pregnancy


Once pregnancy is detected, discontinue azilsartan; chlorthalidone as soon as possible. Use of medications that affect the renin-angiotensin system (RAS), such as ACE inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor antagonists, are generally not recommended for use during pregnancy. Use of RAS inhibitors during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy is associated with reduced fetal renal function and increased risks of fetal and neonatal morbidity and mortality. Exposure to these agents in pregnancy may result in adverse outcomes including fetal death, hypotension, neonatal skull hypoplasia, craniofacial abnormalities, fetal limb contractures, hypoplastic lung development, anuria, fetal growth restriction, and both reversible and irreversible renal failure. Additionally, cases of oligohydramnios and anhydramnios have been reported. Development of oligohydramnios may be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations. Use of RAS inhibitors during the first trimester of pregnancy may increase the risk of fetal harm, such as congenital malformations; however, available data are conflicting. Chlorthalidone crosses the placenta and is present in cord blood. There have been rare reports of fetal or neonatal jaundice, thrombocytopenia, hypoglycemia, and electrolyte imbalance associated with thiazide use during pregnancy. Theoretically, there is concern about the potential for diuretics to cause intravascular volume depletion, which could cause fetal growth restriction or oligohydramnios. However, this concern has not been supported by the literature. Closely monitor the pregnant person's blood pressure, heart rate, and volume status and adjust their pharmacologic treatment as necessary to avoid hypotension and placental hypoperfusion. Diuretics should be generally avoided in preeclampsia, as plasma volume is reduced. In rare cases when another antihypertensive agent cannot be used to treat a pregnant patient, serial ultrasound examinations should be performed to assess the intra-amniotic environment. If oligohydramnios is observed, discontinue azilsartan; chlorthalidone unless it is considered life-saving for the pregnant individual. Oligohydramnios may not appear until after the fetus has sustained irreversible injury.


neonates and infants exposed to this medication in utero


Closely observe neonates and infants exposed to this medication in utero for hypotension, oliguria, and hyperkalemia. If oliguria or hypotension occurs, blood pressure and renal perfusion support may be required, as well as exchange transfusion or dialysis to reverse hypotension and/or support decreased renal function. There have been rare reports of fetal jaundice, thrombocytopenia, hypoglycemia, and electrolyte imbalance associated with thiazide use during pregnancy.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Once pregnancy is detected, discontinue azilsartan; chlorthalidone as soon as possible. Use of medications that affect the renin-angiotensin system (RAS), such as ACE inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor antagonists, are generally not recommended for use during pregnancy. Use of RAS inhibitors during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy is associated with reduced fetal renal function and increased risks of fetal and neonatal morbidity and mortality. Exposure to these agents in pregnancy may result in adverse outcomes including fetal death, hypotension, neonatal skull hypoplasia, craniofacial abnormalities, fetal limb contractures, hypoplastic lung development, anuria, fetal growth restriction, and both reversible and irreversible renal failure. Additionally, cases of oligohydramnios and anhydramnios have been reported. Development of oligohydramnios may be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations. Use of RAS inhibitors during the first trimester of pregnancy may increase the risk of fetal harm, such as congenital malformations; however, available data are conflicting. Chlorthalidone crosses the placenta and is present in cord blood. There have been rare reports of fetal or neonatal jaundice, thrombocytopenia, hypoglycemia, and electrolyte imbalance associated with thiazide use during pregnancy. Theoretically, there is concern about the potential for diuretics to cause intravascular volume depletion, which could cause fetal growth restriction or oligohydramnios. However, this concern has not been supported by the literature. Closely monitor the pregnant person's blood pressure, heart rate, and volume status and adjust their pharmacologic treatment as necessary to avoid hypotension and placental hypoperfusion. Diuretics should be generally avoided in preeclampsia, as plasma volume is reduced. In rare cases when another antihypertensive agent cannot be used to treat a pregnant patient, serial ultrasound examinations should be performed to assess the intra-amniotic environment. If oligohydramnios is observed, discontinue azilsartan; chlorthalidone unless it is considered life-saving for the pregnant individual. Oligohydramnios may not appear until after the fetus has sustained irreversible injury.


Interactions

Acarbose: (Moderate) Angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs) may enhance the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by improving insulin sensitivity. In addition, angiotensin II receptor antagonists have been associated with a reduced incidence in the development of new-onset diabetes in patients with hypertension or other cardiac disease. Patients receiving an ARB in combination with antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in glycemic control. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Opiate agonists may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving phenylephrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure has been reported in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving phenylephrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure has been reported in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and codeine; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving phenylephrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure has been reported in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving phenylephrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure has been reported in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Acetaminophen; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving phenylephrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure has been reported in some patients.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and hydrocodone; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
Acetaminophen; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and oxycodone; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
Acetaminophen; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving phenylephrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure has been reported in some patients.
Acetaminophen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
acetaZOLAMIDE: (Moderate) Acetazolamide promotes electrolyte excretion including hydrogen ions, sodium, and potassium. It can enhance the sodium depleting effects of other diuretics when used concurrently. Pre-existing hypokalemia and hyperuricemia can also be potentiated by carbonic anhydrase inhibitors. Monitor serum potassium to determine the need for potassium supplementation and alteration in drug therapy.
Aclidinium; Formoterol: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Albuterol: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Albuterol; Budesonide: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss. (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Alemtuzumab: (Moderate) Alemtuzumab may cause hypotension. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and hypotensive symptoms is recommended especially in patients with ischemic heart disease and in patients on antihypertensive agents.
Alendronate; Cholecalciferol: (Moderate) Dose adjustment of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs may be necessary during coadministration with thiazide diuretics. Additionally, serum calcium concentrations should be monitored frequently. Monitor more frequently in patients with a history of hypercalcemia. Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by coadministration of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics are known to induce hypercalcemia by reducing the excretion of calcium in the urine.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when a thiazide diuretic is administered with alfentanil. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Aliskiren: (Major) Aliskiren-containing products are contraindicated in combination with angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs) in patients with diabetes mellitus. In general, avoid combined use of two renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) inhibitors, particularly in patients with CrCl less than 60 mL/minute. Combination therapy increases the risk for hyperkalemia, renal impairment, hypotension, and other side effects. Most patients receiving a comination of two RAAS inhibitors, such as ARBs and aliskiren, do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes if aliskiren must be combined with another RAAS inhibitor. In the ALTITUDE trial, patients with type 2 diabetes and renal impairment, a population at high risk for cardiovascular and renal events, were given aliskiren in addition to ACE inhibitors or ARBs. The trial was stopped early because aliskiren was associated with an increased risk of non-fatal stroke, renal complications, hyperkalemia, and hypotension. In the Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial, no additional benefit over monotherapy was seen in patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril compared to monotherapy; however, there was an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute renal injury.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Aliskiren-containing products are contraindicated in combination with angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs) in patients with diabetes mellitus. In general, avoid combined use of two renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) inhibitors, particularly in patients with CrCl less than 60 mL/minute. Combination therapy increases the risk for hyperkalemia, renal impairment, hypotension, and other side effects. Most patients receiving a comination of two RAAS inhibitors, such as ARBs and aliskiren, do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes if aliskiren must be combined with another RAAS inhibitor. In the ALTITUDE trial, patients with type 2 diabetes and renal impairment, a population at high risk for cardiovascular and renal events, were given aliskiren in addition to ACE inhibitors or ARBs. The trial was stopped early because aliskiren was associated with an increased risk of non-fatal stroke, renal complications, hyperkalemia, and hypotension. In the Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial, no additional benefit over monotherapy was seen in patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril compared to monotherapy; however, there was an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute renal injury.
Allopurinol: (Moderate) Monitor renal function and for signs and symptoms of hypersensitivity and skin rash during concomitant use of allopurinol and thiazide diuretics; reduce the allopurinol dose in persons with renal impairment and concomitant thiazide diuretic use. Concomitant use may increase the risk of severe skin rash and renal impairment may further increase the risk. Discontinue allopurinol at the first appearance of skin rash or other signs which may indicate a hypersensitivity when using these drugs concomitantly.
Alogliptin: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. Finally, both thiazides and sulfonylureas have been reported to cause photosensitivity reactions; concomitant use may increase the risk of photosensitivity.
Alogliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain drugs, such as thiazide diuretics, tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of glycemic control. The effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control appear to be dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, thiazide diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. Patients receiving metformin should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if any of these diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary in some patients. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. Finally, both thiazides and sulfonylureas have been reported to cause photosensitivity reactions; concomitant use may increase the risk of photosensitivity.
Alogliptin; Pioglitazone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant thiazolidinedione and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. Finally, both thiazides and sulfonylureas have been reported to cause photosensitivity reactions; concomitant use may increase the risk of photosensitivity.
Alpha-glucosidase Inhibitors: (Moderate) Angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs) may enhance the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by improving insulin sensitivity. In addition, angiotensin II receptor antagonists have been associated with a reduced incidence in the development of new-onset diabetes in patients with hypertension or other cardiac disease. Patients receiving an ARB in combination with antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in glycemic control. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Alprostadil: (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists (angiotensin receptor blockers, or ARBs), may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil. (Minor) The concomitant use of systemic alprostadil injection and antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics, may cause additive hypotension. Caution is advised with this combination. Systemic drug interactions with the urethral suppository (MUSE) or alprostadil intracavernous injection are unlikely in most patients because low or undetectable amounts of the drug are found in the peripheral venous circulation following administration. In those men with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage, hypotension might be more likely. Use caution with in-clinic dosing for erectile dysfunction (ED) and monitor for the effects on blood pressure. In addition, the presence of medications in the circulation that attenuate erectile function may influence the response to alprostadil. However, in clinical trials with alprostadil intracavernous injection, anti-hypertensive agents had no apparent effect on the safety and efficacy of alprostadil.
Amifostine: (Major) Patients receiving angiotensin II receptor antagonists should be closely monitored during amifostine infusions due to additive effects. Patients receiving amifostine at doses recommended for chemotherapy should have antihypertensive therapy interrupted 24 hours preceding administration of amifostine. If the antihypertensive cannot be stopped, patients should not receive amifostine. (Major) Patients receiving antihypertensive agents should be closely monitored during amifostine infusions due to additive effects. If possible, patients should not take their antihypertensive medication 24 hours before receiving amifostine. Patients who can not stop their antihypertensive agents should not receive amifostine or be closely monitored during the infusion and, possibly, given lower doses.
aMILoride: (Major) Potassium-sparing diuretics, such as amiloride, should be used with caution in patients taking drugs that may increase serum potassium levels such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Concurrent use can cause hyperkalemia, especially in elderly patients or patients with impaired renal function. Coadministration may also result in increases in serum creatinine in heart failure patients.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Potassium-sparing diuretics, such as amiloride, should be used with caution in patients taking drugs that may increase serum potassium levels such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Concurrent use can cause hyperkalemia, especially in elderly patients or patients with impaired renal function. Coadministration may also result in increases in serum creatinine in heart failure patients.
Aminolevulinic Acid: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics may cause photosensitivity and may increase the photosensitization effects of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy. Prevention of photosensitivity includes adequate protection from sources of UV radiation (e.g., avoiding sun exposure and tanning booths) and the use of protective clothing and sunscreens on exposed skin.
Aminosalicylate sodium, Aminosalicylic acid: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting benazepril, if possible, or start benazepril at the lower dose of 5 mg/day. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure. (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics.
Amobarbital: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics. (Moderate) Concurrent use of amobarbital with antihypertensive agents may lead to hypotension. Monitor for decreases in blood pressure during times of coadministration.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Amphetamine: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine Salts: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
Amphotericin B lipid complex (ABLC): (Moderate) The risk of developing severe hypokalemia can be increased when amphotericin B is coadministered with thiazide diuretics. Monitoring serum potassium levels and cardiac function is advised, and potassium supplementation may be required.
Amphotericin B liposomal (LAmB): (Moderate) The risk of developing severe hypokalemia can be increased when amphotericin B is coadministered with thiazide diuretics. Monitoring serum potassium levels and cardiac function is advised, and potassium supplementation may be required.
Amphotericin B: (Moderate) The risk of developing severe hypokalemia can be increased when amphotericin B is coadministered with thiazide diuretics. Monitoring serum potassium levels and cardiac function is advised, and potassium supplementation may be required.
Angiotensin II: (Moderate) Angiotensin II receptor antagonists (angiotensin receptor blockers, or ARBs) may decrease the response to angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a naturally occurring peptide hormone of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) that causes vasoconstriction and an increase in blood pressure. ARBs block the vasoconstrictor and aldosterone-secreting effects of angiotensin II by selectively blocking the binding of angiotensin II to the angiotensin receptor in many tissues.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors: (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
Anticholinergics: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Apomorphine: (Moderate) Use of angiotensin II receptor antagonists and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination. (Moderate) Use of thiazide diuretics and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Apraclonidine: (Minor) Alpha blockers as a class may reduce heart rate and blood pressure. While no specific drug interactions have been identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials, it is theoretically possible that additive blood pressure reductions could occur when apraclonidine is combined with the use of antihypertensive agents. Patients using cardiovascular drugs concomitantly with apraclonidine should have their pulse and blood pressure monitored periodically.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Minor) Use caution if azilsartan and aprepitant are used concurrently and monitor for a possible decrease in the efficacy of azilsartan. After administration, fosaprepitant is rapidly converted to aprepitant and shares the same drug interactions. Azilsartan is a CYP2C9 substrate and aprepitant is a CYP2C9 inducer. Administration of a CYP2C9 substrate, tolbutamide, on days 1, 4, 8, and 15 with a 3-day regimen of oral aprepitant (125 mg/80 mg/80 mg) decreased the tolbutamide AUC by 23% on day 4, 28% on day 8, and 15% on day 15. The AUC of tolbutamide was decreased by 8% on day 2, 16% on day 4, 15% on day 8, and 10% on day 15 when given prior to oral administration of aprepitant 40 mg on day 1, and on days 2, 4, 8, and 15. The effects of aprepitant on tolbutamide were not considered significant. When a 3-day regimen of aprepitant (125 mg/80 mg/80 mg) given to healthy patients on stabilized chronic warfarin therapy (another CYP2C9 substrate), a 34% decrease in S-warfarin trough concentrations was noted, accompanied by a 14% decrease in the INR at five days after completion of aprepitant.
Arformoterol: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
ARIPiprazole: (Minor) Aripiprazole may enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Arsenic Trioxide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of thiazide diuretics and arsenic trioxide should be done cautiously. Electrolyte abnormalities, such as hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia, may increase the risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including angiotensin II receptor antagonists, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and thiazide diuretic use. Thiazide diuretics may antagonize the pressor effects and potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
Asenapine: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Aspirin, ASA: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and codeine; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Aspirin, ASA; Dipyridamole: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and oxycodone; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
Atracurium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and thiazide diuretics may prolong neuromuscular blockade, possibly due to hypokalemia or alterations in potassium concentrations across the end-plate membrane.
Atropine: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Azelastine; Fluticasone: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss.
Baclofen: (Moderate) Baclofen has been associated with hypotension. Concurrent use with baclofen and antihypertensive agents may result in additive hypotension. Dosage adjustments of the antihypertensive medication may be required.
Barbiturates: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics.
Baxdrostat: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations if an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) and baxdrostat are used together. Both medications increase serum potassium concentrations and concomitant use may increase the risk for hyperkalemia.
Beclomethasone: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss.
Belladonna; Opium: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when thiazide diuretics are administered with opium. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone. (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Benazepril: (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting benazepril, if possible, or start benazepril at the lower dose of 5 mg/day. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure. (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting benazepril, if possible, or start benazepril at the lower dose of 5 mg/day. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure. (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when thiazide diuretics are administered with benzhydrocodone. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics may cause the urine to become alkaline. This may reduce the effectiveness of methenamine by inhibiting its conversion to formaldehyde. (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Benzphetamine: (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH. (Minor) Benzphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Benztropine: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Beta-agonists: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Betamethasone: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss.
Bexagliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Bismuth Subsalicylate: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Bortezomib: (Moderate) Patients on antihypertensive agents receiving bortezomib treatment may require close monitoring of their blood pressure and dosage adjustment of their medication. During clinical trials of bortezomib, hypotension was reported in roughly 12 percent of patients.
Brexpiprazole: (Moderate) Due to brexpiprazole's antagonism at alpha 1-adrenergic receptors, the drug may enhance the hypotensive effects of alpha-blockers and other antihypertensive agents.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving phenylephrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure has been reported in some patients.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving phenylephrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure has been reported in some patients.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Budesonide: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss. (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss. (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms. (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Bumetanide: (Moderate) Coadministration of furosemide and Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) or angiotensin II receptor antagonists may result in severe hypotension and deterioration in renal function, including renal failure. Hyponatremia or hypovolemia predisposes patients to acute hypotensive episodes following initiation of ACE inhibitor therapy. While ACE inhibitors and loop diuretics are routinely administered together in the treatment of heart failure, if an ACE inhibitor is to be administered to a patient receiving furosemide, initial doses should be conservative. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure, renal function, and serum electrolytes during concomitant loop diuretic and thiazide diuretic use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may result in additive hypotension and fluid and/or electrolyte loss.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including angiotensin II receptor antagonists, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and thiazide diuretic use. Thiazide diuretics may antagonize the pressor effects and potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics.
Buprenorphine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and buprenorphine; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and buprenorphine; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics. (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and codeine; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and codeine; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
Cabergoline: (Moderate) Cabergoline should be used cautiously with antihypertensive agents, including angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Cabergoline has been associated with hypotension. Initial doses of cabergoline higher than 1 mg may produce orthostatic hypotension. It may be advisable to monitor blood pressure. (Moderate) Cabergoline should be used cautiously with antihypertensive agents, including thiazide diuretics. Cabergoline has been associated with hypotension. Initial doses of cabergoline higher than 1 mg may produce orthostatic hypotension. It may be advisable to monitor blood pressure.
Calcifediol: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentrations during concomitant use of thiazide diuretics and vitamin D analogs; a dosage adjustment of the vitamin D analog may be needed. Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by concomitant administration.
Calcitriol: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentrations during concomitant use of thiazide diuretics and vitamin D analogs; a dosage adjustment of the vitamin D analog may be needed. Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by concomitant administration.
Calcium Acetate: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Calcium Carbonate: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Calcium Carbonate; Famotidine; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Calcium Carbonate; Simethicone: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Calcium Chloride: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Calcium Gluconate: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Calcium Phosphate, Supersaturated: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous. (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as diuretics, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Calcium: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Calcium; Vitamin D: (Moderate) Dose adjustment of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs may be necessary during coadministration with thiazide diuretics. Additionally, serum calcium concentrations should be monitored frequently. Monitor more frequently in patients with a history of hypercalcemia. Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by coadministration of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics are known to induce hypercalcemia by reducing the excretion of calcium in the urine. (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Calcium; Vitamin D: (Moderate) Dose adjustment of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs may be necessary during coadministration with thiazide diuretics. Additionally, serum calcium concentrations should be monitored frequently. Monitor more frequently in patients with a history of hypercalcemia. Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by coadministration of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics are known to induce hypercalcemia by reducing the excretion of calcium in the urine. (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Canagliflozin: (Major) Assess and correct volume status before initiating canagliflozin in persons receiving concomitant thiazide diuretics. Monitor for signs and symptoms of volume depletion and loss of glycemic control after initiating therapy due to increased risk for volume depletion or hypotension and loss of blood glucose control. Persons receiving thiazide diuretics may be at increased risk for volume depletion or hypotension with concomitant canagliflozin therapy. Thiazide diuretics tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of glycemic control. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Canagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Major) Assess and correct volume status before initiating canagliflozin in persons receiving concomitant thiazide diuretics. Monitor for signs and symptoms of volume depletion and loss of glycemic control after initiating therapy due to increased risk for volume depletion or hypotension and loss of blood glucose control. Persons receiving thiazide diuretics may be at increased risk for volume depletion or hypotension with concomitant canagliflozin therapy. Thiazide diuretics tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of glycemic control. (Moderate) Certain drugs, such as thiazide diuretics, tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of glycemic control. The effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control appear to be dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, thiazide diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. Patients receiving metformin should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if any of these diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary in some patients. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Captopril: (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting captopril, if possible, or start captopril at the lower dose of 6.25 or 12.5 mg/day. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure. (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting captopril, if possible, or start captopril at the lower dose of 6.25 or 12.5 mg/day. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure. (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
carBAMazepine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant use of carbamazepine and thiazide diuretics due to additive risk of developing hyponatremia.
Carbidopa; Levodopa: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Carbidopa; Levodopa; Entacapone: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Cardiac glycosides: (Moderate) Monitor serum magnesium and potassium during concomitant cardiac glycoside and thiazide diuretic use. Potassium-depleting diuretics are a major contributing factor to digoxin toxicity.
Cariprazine: (Moderate) Orthostatic vital signs should be monitored in patients who are at risk for hypotension, such as those receiving cariprazine in combination with antihypertensive agents. Atypical antipsychotics may cause orthostatic hypotension and syncope, most commonly during treatment initiation and dosage increases. Patients should be informed about measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning, or rising slowly from a seated position. Consider a cariprazine dose reduction if hypotension occurs.
Celecoxib: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics. (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and tramadol; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Chloroprocaine: (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and codeine; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving phenylephrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure has been reported in some patients.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and hydrocodone; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving phenylephrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure has been reported in some patients.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
chlorproMAZINE: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and phenothiazine use. Thiazide diuretics may potentiate the orthostatic hypotension that may occur with phenothiazines.
Cholestyramine: (Moderate) Cholestyramine, an ion exchange resin, binds hydrochlorothiazide and reduces its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85% when co-administered as single doses. Although the manufacturer for Questran recommends that other medicines be taken at least 1 hour before or 4-6 hours after cholestyramine, it has been recommended that thiazides be administered at least 4 hours before or after cholestyramine to minimize the reduction in absorption. By administering hydrochlorothiazide at least 4 hours before cholestyramine, the decrease in absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is approximately 30-35%.
Choline Salicylate; Magnesium Salicylate: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Chromium: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Ciclesonide: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss.
Cidofovir: (Contraindicated) The administration of cidofovir with another potentially nephrotoxic agent, such as diuretics, is contraindicated. Diuretics should be discontinued at least 7 days prior to beginning cidofovir.
Cisapride: (Major) Cisapride should be used with great caution in patients receiving thiazide diuretics. Drugs that are associated with depletion of electrolytes may cause cisapride-induced cardiac arrhythmias. Serum electrolytes and creatinine should be assessed prior to administration of cisapride and whenever conditions develop that may affect electrolyte imbalance or renal function.
Cisatracurium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and thiazide diuretics may prolong neuromuscular blockade, possibly due to hypokalemia or alterations in potassium concentrations across the end-plate membrane.
Citalopram: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and citalopram use; consider discontinuing citalopram if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Citric Acid; Potassium Citrate; Sodium Citrate: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin II receptor antagonists are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Clindamycin; Tretinoin: (Moderate) A manufacturer of topical tretinoin states that tretinoin, ATRA should be administered with caution in patients who are also taking drugs known to be photosensitizers, such as thiazide diuretics, as concomitant use may augment phototoxicity. Patients should take care and use proper techniques to limit sunlight and UV exposure of treated areas.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Caution is advisable during concurrent use of clozapine and thiazide diuretics as concurrent use may increase the risk and severity of hypotension. In addition, electrolyte imbalance caused by thiazide diuretics may increase the risk of QT prolongation by clozapine. (Moderate) Clozapine used concomitantly with the antihypertensive agents can increase the risk and severity of hypotension by potentiating the effect of the antihypertensive drug.
Cocaine: (Major) Use of cocaine with antihypertensive agents may increase the antihypertensive effects of the antihypertensive medications or may potentiate cocaine-induced sympathetic stimulation.
Cod Liver Oil: (Moderate) Dose adjustment of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs may be necessary during coadministration with thiazide diuretics. Additionally, serum calcium concentrations should be monitored frequently. Monitor more frequently in patients with a history of hypercalcemia. Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by coadministration of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics are known to induce hypercalcemia by reducing the excretion of calcium in the urine.
Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and codeine; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and codeine; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and codeine; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and codeine; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and phenothiazine use. Thiazide diuretics may potentiate the orthostatic hypotension that may occur with phenothiazines. (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and codeine; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving phenylephrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure has been reported in some patients.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and phenothiazine use. Thiazide diuretics may potentiate the orthostatic hypotension that may occur with phenothiazines. (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and codeine; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
Co-Enzyme Q10, Ubiquinone: (Moderate) Co-enzyme Q10, ubiquinone (CoQ10) may lower blood pressure. CoQ10 use in combination with antihypertensive agents may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients who choose to take CoQ10 concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring. Patients should be advised to inform their prescriber of their use of CoQ10. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant co-enzyme Q10 (ubiquinone) and thiazide diuretic use. Concomitant use may result in additive hypotension.
Colestipol: (Moderate) Although to a lesser extent than cholestyramine, colestipol also has been shown to inhibit the GI absorption and therapeutic response of thiazide diuretics. Single doses of colestipol resins reduce the absorption of HCTZ by up to 43%. Administering thiazide diuretics at least 2 hours before colestipol has been suggested to minimize the interaction.
Corticosteroids: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss.
Corticotropin, ACTH: (Minor) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticotropin and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticotropin and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss.
Cortisone: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss.
Cosyntropin: (Moderate) Use cosyntropin cautiously in patients receiving diuretics. Cosyntropin may accentuate the electrolyte loss associated with diuretic therapy.
cycloPHOSphamide: (Moderate) Closely monitor complete blood counts if coadministration of cyclophosphamide with thiazide diuretics is necessary as there is an increased risk of hematologic toxicity and immunosuppression.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Coadministration of cyclosporine and an angiotensin II receptor antagonist, like azilsartan, may increase the risk of hyperkalemia and reduced renal function. In response to cyclosporine-induced renal afferent vasoconstriction and glomerular hypoperfusion, angiotensin II is required to maintain an adequate glomerular filtration rate. Inhibition of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) could reduce renal function acutely. Several cases of acute renal failure have been associated with the addition of enalapril to cyclosporine therapy in renal transplant patients. Also, cyclosporine can cause hyperkalemia, and inhibition of angiotensin II leads to reduced aldosterone concentrations, which can increase the serum potassium concentration. Closely monitor renal function and serum potassium concentrations in patients receiving cyclosporine concurrently with azilsartan.
Dabrafenib: (Moderate) The concomitant use of dabrafenib, a CYP29 inducer, and azilsartan, a CYP2C9 substrate, may result in decreased levels of azilsartan; avoid concomitant use if possible. If another agent cannot be substituted and coadministration of these agents is unavoidable, monitor patients closely for loss of azilsartan efficacy.
Dapagliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Dapagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain drugs, such as thiazide diuretics, tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of glycemic control. The effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control appear to be dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, thiazide diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. Patients receiving metformin should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if any of these diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary in some patients. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Dapagliflozin; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. Finally, both thiazides and sulfonylureas have been reported to cause photosensitivity reactions; concomitant use may increase the risk of photosensitivity.
Deflazacort: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss.
Desloratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Desmopressin: (Moderate) Monitor serum sodium more frequently during concomitant desmopressin and thiazide diuretic use due to increased risk of water intoxication with hyponatremia.
Desvenlafaxine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) use; consider discontinuing the SNRI if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
dexAMETHasone: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving phenylephrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure has been reported in some patients.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Dexlansoprazole: (Moderate) Proton pump inhibitors have been associated with hypomagnesemia. Hypomagnesemia occurs with thiazide diuretics (chlorothiazide, hydrochlorothiazide, indapamide, and metolazone). Low serum magnesium may lead to serious adverse events such as muscle spasm, seizures, and arrhythmias. Therefore, clinicians should monitor serum magnesium concentrations periodically in patients taking a PPI and diuretics concomitantly. Patients who develop hypomagnesemia may require PPI discontinuation in addition to magnesium replacement.
Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and adjust the dose of the angiotensin II blockers as needed during coadministration with methylphenidate. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of drugs used to treat hypertension. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and methylphenidate use; a thiazide diuretic dose adjustment may be necessary. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of medications used to treat hypertension.
Dextroamphetamine: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving phenylephrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure has been reported in some patients.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving phenylephrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure has been reported in some patients.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Moderate) Quinidine can decrease blood pressure and should be used cautiously in patients receiving antihypertensive agents due to the potential for additive hypotension.
Diazoxide: (Moderate) Monitor for hyperglycemia and hyperuricemia during concomitant use of diazoxide and diuretics. Both medications have been associated with these adverse effects and risk may be additive with concomitant use.
Dichlorphenamide: (Moderate) Use dichlorphenamide and diuretics together with caution. Dichlorphenamide increases potassium excretion and can cause hypokalemia and should be used cautiously with other drugs that may cause hypokalemia including loop diuretics and thiazide diuretics. Measure potassium concentrations at baseline and periodically during dichlorphenamide treatment. If hypokalemia occurs or persists, consider reducing the dose or discontinuing dichlorphenamide therapy.
Diclofenac: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics.
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics.
Dicyclomine: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Diethylpropion: (Major) Diethylpropion has vasopressor effects and may limit the benefit of thiazide diuretics. Although leading drug interaction texts differ in the potential for an interaction between diethylpropion and this group of antihypertensive agents, these effects are likely to be clinically significant and have been described in hypertensive patients on these medications. (Moderate) Diethylpropion has vasopressor effects and may limit the benefit of angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Although leading drug interaction texts differ in the potential for an interaction between diethylpropion and this group of antihypertensive agents, these effects are likely to be clinically significant and have been described in hypertensive patients on these medications.
Diflunisal: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics.
Digoxin: (Moderate) Caution should be exercised when administering digoxin with drugs that may cause a significant deterioration in renal function including angiotensin II receptor antagonists. A decline in glomerular filtration or tubular secretion may impair the excretion of digoxin. Close monitoring of serum digoxin concentrations is essential to avoid enhanced toxicity. (Moderate) Monitor serum magnesium and potassium during concomitant cardiac glycoside and thiazide diuretic use. Potassium-depleting diuretics are a major contributing factor to digoxin toxicity.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving phenylephrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure has been reported in some patients.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
DOBUTamine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as metolazone when administered concomitantly.
Dofetilide: (Contraindicated) Hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia may occur with administration of potassium-depleting drugs such as loop diuretics and thiazide diuretics, increasing the potential for dofetilide-induced torsade de pointes. Additionally, in patients treated with either hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg or hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene 50 mg/100 mg daily in combination with dofetilide 500 mcg twice daily for 5 days, dofetilide AUC and Cmax concentrations increased by 27% and 21%, respectively, for the hydrochlorothiazide alone group and by 30% and 16%, respectively, for the hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene group. Furthermore, a 197% and 190% QTc increase over time was seen in the hydrochlorothiazide and hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene groups, respectively. Based on these findings, the manufacturer of dofetilide contraindicates the concomitant use of hydrochlorothiazide (alone or in combination with other drugs such as triamterene); these findings can be explained both by an increase in the plasma concentration of dofetilide and a reduction in the serum potassium concentration. In a population pharmacokinetic analysis of plasma dofetilide concentrations, the mean dofetilide clearance of dofetilide was 16% lower in patients on thiazide diuretics. It is prudent to avoid the use of any thiazide diuretic in combination with dofetilide.
DOPamine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as metolazone when administered concomitantly.
Doxercalciferol: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentrations during concomitant use of thiazide diuretics and vitamin D analogs; a dosage adjustment of the vitamin D analog may be needed. Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by concomitant administration.
droPERidol: (Moderate) Caution is advised when using droperidol in combination with thiazide diuretics which may lead to electrolyte abnormalities, especially hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia, as such abnormalities may increase the risk for QT prolongation or cardiac arrhythmias.
Drospirenone: (Moderate) Drospirenone has antimineralocorticoid effects and may increase serum potassium. The concurrent use of angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs) may increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment. Monitor serum potassium during the 1st month of drospirenone treatment if ARBs are used concurrently and thereafter as clinically indicated. Also monitor for any changes in blood pressure, fluid retention, or renal function.
Drospirenone; Estetrol: (Moderate) Drospirenone has antimineralocorticoid effects and may increase serum potassium. The concurrent use of angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs) may increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment. Monitor serum potassium during the 1st month of drospirenone treatment if ARBs are used concurrently and thereafter as clinically indicated. Also monitor for any changes in blood pressure, fluid retention, or renal function.
Drospirenone; Estradiol: (Moderate) Drospirenone has antimineralocorticoid effects and may increase serum potassium. The concurrent use of angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs) may increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment. Monitor serum potassium during the 1st month of drospirenone treatment if ARBs are used concurrently and thereafter as clinically indicated. Also monitor for any changes in blood pressure, fluid retention, or renal function.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Drospirenone has antimineralocorticoid effects and may increase serum potassium. The concurrent use of angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs) may increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment. Monitor serum potassium during the 1st month of drospirenone treatment if ARBs are used concurrently and thereafter as clinically indicated. Also monitor for any changes in blood pressure, fluid retention, or renal function.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Moderate) Drospirenone has antimineralocorticoid effects and may increase serum potassium. The concurrent use of angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs) may increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of renal impairment. Monitor serum potassium during the 1st month of drospirenone treatment if ARBs are used concurrently and thereafter as clinically indicated. Also monitor for any changes in blood pressure, fluid retention, or renal function.
Dulaglutide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. Finally, both thiazides and sulfonylureas have been reported to cause photosensitivity reactions; concomitant use may increase the risk of photosensitivity.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) use; consider discontinuing the SNRI if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia. (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension and syncope have been reported during duloxetine administration. The concurrent administration of antihypertensive agents and duloxetine may increase the risk of hypotension. Monitor blood pressure if the combination is necessary.
Empagliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. Finally, both thiazides and sulfonylureas have been reported to cause photosensitivity reactions; concomitant use may increase the risk of photosensitivity.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain drugs, such as thiazide diuretics, tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of glycemic control. The effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control appear to be dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, thiazide diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. Patients receiving metformin should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if any of these diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary in some patients. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. Finally, both thiazides and sulfonylureas have been reported to cause photosensitivity reactions; concomitant use may increase the risk of photosensitivity.
Empagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain drugs, such as thiazide diuretics, tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of glycemic control. The effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control appear to be dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, thiazide diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. Patients receiving metformin should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if any of these diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary in some patients. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Enalapril, Enalaprilat: (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting enalapril, if possible, or start enalapril at the lower dose of 2.5 mg/day. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure. (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting enalapril, if possible, or start enalapril at the lower dose of 2.5 mg/day. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure. (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
ePHEDrine: (Major) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics, such as ephedrine, may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by thiazide diuretics. Blood pressure and heart rates should be monitored closely to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics, such as ephedrine, may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Blood pressure and heart rates should be monitored closely to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
ePHEDrine; guaiFENesin: (Major) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics, such as ephedrine, may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by thiazide diuretics. Blood pressure and heart rates should be monitored closely to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics, such as ephedrine, may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Blood pressure and heart rates should be monitored closely to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including angiotensin II receptor antagonists, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and thiazide diuretic use. Thiazide diuretics may antagonize the pressor effects and potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
Eplerenone: (Major) Monitor serum potassium and serum creatinine concentrations within 3 to 7 days of initiating coadministration of eplerenone and angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs). Hyperkalemia risk is increased when eplerenone is used with ARBs. Patients who develop hyperkalemia may continue eplerenone with proper dose adjustment; eplerenone dose reduction decreases potassium concentrations.
Epoprostenol: (Moderate) Angiotensin II receptor antagonists can enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents if given concomitantly. This additive effect may be desirable, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
Ertugliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Ertugliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain drugs, such as thiazide diuretics, tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of glycemic control. The effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control appear to be dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, thiazide diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. Patients receiving metformin should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if any of these diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary in some patients. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Ertugliflozin; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Escitalopram: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and escitalopram use; consider discontinuing escitalopram if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Esomeprazole: (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant esomeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients; patients who are receiving antihypertensive agents concurrently with hormonal contraceptives should be monitored for antihypertensive effectiveness. (Minor) Estrogens can induce fluid retention and may increase blood pressure in some patients; patients who are receiving antihypertensive agents concurrently with hormone therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive effectiveness.
Ethacrynic Acid: (Moderate) Coadministration of furosemide and Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) or angiotensin II receptor antagonists may result in severe hypotension and deterioration in renal function, including renal failure. Hyponatremia or hypovolemia predisposes patients to acute hypotensive episodes following initiation of ACE inhibitor therapy. While ACE inhibitors and loop diuretics are routinely administered together in the treatment of heart failure, if an ACE inhibitor is to be administered to a patient receiving furosemide, initial doses should be conservative. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure, renal function, and serum electrolytes during concomitant loop diuretic and thiazide diuretic use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may result in additive hypotension and fluid and/or electrolyte loss.
Ethanol: (Major) Advise patients to avoid alcohol while taking thiazide diuretics. Ingesting alcohol can increase the risk for orthostatic hypotension when taking a thiazide diuretic.
Ethiodized Oil: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure.
Etodolac: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics.
Etomidate: (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Exenatide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. Finally, both thiazides and sulfonylureas have been reported to cause photosensitivity reactions; concomitant use may increase the risk of photosensitivity.
Fenoprofen: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and fentanyl; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
Fexofenadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Finerenone: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if finerenone and angiotensin II receptor antagonists are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Fish Oil, Omega-3 Fatty Acids (Dietary Supplements): (Moderate) High doses of fish oil supplements may produce a blood pressure lowering effect. It is possible that additive reductions in blood pressure may be seen when fish oils are used in a patient already taking antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant fish oil and thiazide diuretic use. Concomitant use may result in additive hypotension; high doses of fish oil may produce a blood pressure lowering effect.
flavoxATE: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Fludrocortisone: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss.
Flunisolide: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss.
Fluocinolone; Hydroquinone; Tretinoin: (Moderate) A manufacturer of topical tretinoin states that tretinoin, ATRA should be administered with caution in patients who are also taking drugs known to be photosensitizers, such as thiazide diuretics, as concomitant use may augment phototoxicity. Patients should take care and use proper techniques to limit sunlight and UV exposure of treated areas.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and fluoxetine use; consider discontinuing fluoxetine if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
fluPHENAZine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and phenothiazine use. Thiazide diuretics may potentiate the orthostatic hypotension that may occur with phenothiazines.
Flurbiprofen: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics.
Fluticasone: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss.
Fluticasone; Salmeterol: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss. (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Fluticasone; Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss. (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Fluticasone; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss. (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
fluvoxaMINE: (Moderate) Patients receiving a diuretic during treatment with fluvoxamine may be at greater risk of developing syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). Hyponatremia due to SIADH has been reported during therapy with SSRIs. Cases involving serum sodium levels lower than 110 mmol/L have occurred. Hyponatremia may be potentiated by agents which can cause sodium depletion such as diuretics. Discontinuation of fluvoxamine should be considered in patients who develop symptomatic hyponatremia.
Formoterol: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Formoterol; Mometasone: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss. (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Foscarbidopa; Foslevodopa: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Fosinopril: (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting fosinopril, if possible, or start fosinopril at a lower dose to minimize hypotension. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure. (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting fosinopril, if possible, or start fosinopril at a lower dose to minimize hypotension. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure. (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
Furosemide: (Moderate) Coadministration of furosemide and Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) or angiotensin II receptor antagonists may result in severe hypotension and deterioration in renal function, including renal failure. Hyponatremia or hypovolemia predisposes patients to acute hypotensive episodes following initiation of ACE inhibitor therapy. While ACE inhibitors and loop diuretics are routinely administered together in the treatment of heart failure, if an ACE inhibitor is to be administered to a patient receiving furosemide, initial doses should be conservative. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure, renal function, and serum electrolytes during concomitant loop diuretic and thiazide diuretic use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may result in additive hypotension and fluid and/or electrolyte loss.
General anesthetics: (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Glimepiride: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sulfonylurea and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
glipiZIDE: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sulfonylurea and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain drugs, such as thiazide diuretics, tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of glycemic control. The effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control appear to be dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, thiazide diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. Patients receiving metformin should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if any of these diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary in some patients. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sulfonylurea and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
glyBURIDE: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sulfonylurea and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain drugs, such as thiazide diuretics, tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of glycemic control. The effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control appear to be dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, thiazide diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. Patients receiving metformin should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if any of these diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary in some patients. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sulfonylurea and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Glycopyrrolate: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms. (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Granisetron: (Moderate) According to the manufacturer, caution is warranted when administering granisetron to patients with preexisting electrolyte abnormalities. Patients taking certain diuretics may develop an electrolyte abnormality that may lead to cardiac dysrhythmias and/or QT prolongation. Hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia may occur with administration of potassium-depleting drugs such as loop diuretics and thiazide diuretics, increasing the potential for cardiac arrhythmias.
guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving phenylephrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure has been reported in some patients.
guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Halobetasol; Tazarotene: (Moderate) The manufacturer states that tazarotene should be administered with caution in patients who are also taking drugs known to be photosensitizers, such as thiazide diuretics, as concomitant use may augment phototoxicity. Patients should take care and use proper techniques to limit sunlight and UV exposure of treated areas.
Haloperidol: (Moderate) Caution is advisable during concurrent use of haloperidol and thiazide diuretics as electrolyte imbalance caused by diuretics may increase the risk of QT prolongation with haloperidol. Concomitant use may also cause additive hypotension. (Moderate) In general, antipsychotics like haloperidol should be used cautiously with antihypertensive agents due to the possibility of additive hypotension.
Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents like the angiotensin II receptor antagonists may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring. (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and hydrocodone; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic. (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
hydrALAZINE; Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting moexipril, if possible, or start moexipril at the lower dose of 3.75 mg/day. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure. (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and hydrocodone; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics. (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and hydrocodone; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
Hydrocortisone: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss.
HYDROmorphone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when thiazide diuretics are administered with hydromorphone. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Hyoscyamine: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics may cause the urine to become alkaline. This may reduce the effectiveness of methenamine by inhibiting its conversion to formaldehyde. (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Ibritumomab Tiuxetan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of potassium phosphate and angiotensin II receptor antagonists as concurrent use may increase the risk of severe and potentially fatal hyperkalemia, particularly in high-risk patients (renal impairment, cardiac disease, adrenal insufficiency). If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor serum potassium concentrations. (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin II receptor antagonists are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Ibuprofen lysine: (Moderate) Ibuprofen lysine may reduce the effect of diuretics; diuretics can increase the risk of nephrotoxicity of NSAIDs in dehydrated patients. During coadministration of NSAIDs and diuretic therapy, patients should be monitored for changes in the effectiveness of their diuretic therapy and for signs and symptoms of renal impairment.
Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Icosapent ethyl: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics may exacerbate hypertriglyceridemia and should be discontinued or changed to alternate therapy, if possible, prior to initiation of icosapent ethyl.
Iloperidone: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, iloperidone can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use with antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of iloperidone and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Iloprost: (Moderate) Angiotensin II receptor antagonists can enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents if given concomitantly. This additive effect may be desirable, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
Incretin Mimetics: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. Finally, both thiazides and sulfonylureas have been reported to cause photosensitivity reactions; concomitant use may increase the risk of photosensitivity.
Indapamide: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. In some patients, this may be desirable, but orthostatic hypotension may occur. Angiotensin II receptor antagonists tend to reverse the potassium loss, but not the serum uric acid rise associated with thiazide diuretic monotherapy.
Indomethacin: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics.
Inotersen: (Moderate) Use caution with concomitant use of inotersen and diuretics due to the risk of glomerulonephritis and nephrotoxicity.
Insulin Aspart: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin II receptor blocker use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control when thiazide diuretics are instituted or discontinued; dosage adjustments may be required. Thiazide diuretics can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of insulin by producing an increase in blood glucose levels. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes.
Insulin Aspart; Insulin Aspart Protamine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin II receptor blocker use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control when thiazide diuretics are instituted or discontinued; dosage adjustments may be required. Thiazide diuretics can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of insulin by producing an increase in blood glucose levels. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes.
Insulin Degludec: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin II receptor blocker use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control when thiazide diuretics are instituted or discontinued; dosage adjustments may be required. Thiazide diuretics can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of insulin by producing an increase in blood glucose levels. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes.
Insulin Degludec; Liraglutide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin II receptor blocker use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control when thiazide diuretics are instituted or discontinued; dosage adjustments may be required. Thiazide diuretics can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of insulin by producing an increase in blood glucose levels. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. Finally, both thiazides and sulfonylureas have been reported to cause photosensitivity reactions; concomitant use may increase the risk of photosensitivity.
Insulin Detemir: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin II receptor blocker use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control when thiazide diuretics are instituted or discontinued; dosage adjustments may be required. Thiazide diuretics can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of insulin by producing an increase in blood glucose levels. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes.
Insulin Glargine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin II receptor blocker use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control when thiazide diuretics are instituted or discontinued; dosage adjustments may be required. Thiazide diuretics can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of insulin by producing an increase in blood glucose levels. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes.
Insulin Glargine; Lixisenatide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin II receptor blocker use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control when thiazide diuretics are instituted or discontinued; dosage adjustments may be required. Thiazide diuretics can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of insulin by producing an increase in blood glucose levels. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. Finally, both thiazides and sulfonylureas have been reported to cause photosensitivity reactions; concomitant use may increase the risk of photosensitivity.
Insulin Glulisine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin II receptor blocker use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control when thiazide diuretics are instituted or discontinued; dosage adjustments may be required. Thiazide diuretics can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of insulin by producing an increase in blood glucose levels. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes.
Insulin Icodec: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin II receptor blocker use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control when thiazide diuretics are instituted or discontinued; dosage adjustments may be required. Thiazide diuretics can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of insulin by producing an increase in blood glucose levels. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes.
Insulin Lispro: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin II receptor blocker use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control when thiazide diuretics are instituted or discontinued; dosage adjustments may be required. Thiazide diuretics can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of insulin by producing an increase in blood glucose levels. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes.
Insulin Lispro; Insulin Lispro Protamine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin II receptor blocker use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control when thiazide diuretics are instituted or discontinued; dosage adjustments may be required. Thiazide diuretics can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of insulin by producing an increase in blood glucose levels. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes.
Insulin, Inhaled: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin II receptor blocker use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control when thiazide diuretics are instituted or discontinued; dosage adjustments may be required. Thiazide diuretics can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of insulin by producing an increase in blood glucose levels. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes.
Insulins: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin II receptor blocker use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control when thiazide diuretics are instituted or discontinued; dosage adjustments may be required. Thiazide diuretics can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of insulin by producing an increase in blood glucose levels. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes.
Intravenous Lipid Emulsions: (Moderate) High doses of fish oil supplements may produce a blood pressure lowering effect. It is possible that additive reductions in blood pressure may be seen when fish oils are used in a patient already taking antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant fish oil and thiazide diuretic use. Concomitant use may result in additive hypotension; high doses of fish oil may produce a blood pressure lowering effect.
Iodine; Potassium Iodide, KI: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin II receptor antagonists are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Iodixanol: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure.
Iohexol: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure.
Iomeprol: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure.
Iopamidol: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure.
Iopromide: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure.
Ioversol: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure.
Ipratropium; Albuterol: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Isocarboxazid: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may be seen when isocarboxazid is combined with angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Careful monitoring of blood pressure is suggested during concurrent therapy of isocarboxazid with angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Patients should be instructed to rise slowly from a sitting position, and to report syncope or changes in blood pressure or heart rate to their health care provider during concurrent use of isocarboxazid and an angiotensin II receptor antagonist. (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may be seen when monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) are combined with antihypertensives. Careful monitoring of blood pressure is suggested during concurrent therapy of MAOIs with diuretics. Patients should be instructed to rise slowly from a sitting position, and to report syncope or changes in blood pressure or heart rate to their health care provider.
Isoflurane: (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin II receptor blocker use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control when thiazide diuretics are instituted or discontinued; dosage adjustments may be required. Thiazide diuretics can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of insulin by producing an increase in blood glucose levels. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes.
Isoproterenol: (Moderate) The pharmacologic effects of isoproterenol may cause an increase in blood pressure. If isoproterenol is used concomitantly with antihypertensives, the blood pressure should be monitored as the administration of isoproterenol can compromise the effectiveness of antihypertensive agents.
Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Isosorbide Mononitrate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Isosulfan Blue: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure.
Ketamine: (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Ketoprofen: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics.
Ketorolac: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics.
Lansoprazole: (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant lansoprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant lansoprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Levalbuterol: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Levodopa: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Levomilnacipran: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) use; consider discontinuing the SNRI if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Levorphanol: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when thiazide diuretics are administered with levorphanol. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including angiotensin II receptor antagonists, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and thiazide diuretic use. Thiazide diuretics may antagonize the pressor effects and potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
Linagliptin: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. Finally, both thiazides and sulfonylureas have been reported to cause photosensitivity reactions; concomitant use may increase the risk of photosensitivity.
Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain drugs, such as thiazide diuretics, tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of glycemic control. The effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control appear to be dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, thiazide diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. Patients receiving metformin should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if any of these diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary in some patients. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. Finally, both thiazides and sulfonylureas have been reported to cause photosensitivity reactions; concomitant use may increase the risk of photosensitivity.
Liraglutide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. Finally, both thiazides and sulfonylureas have been reported to cause photosensitivity reactions; concomitant use may increase the risk of photosensitivity.
Lisdexamfetamine: (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH. (Minor) Lisdexamfetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Lisinopril: (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting lisinopril, if possible, or start lisinopril at the lower dose of 5 mg/day. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure. (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting lisinopril, if possible, or start lisinopril at the lower dose of 5 mg/day. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure. (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
Lithium: (Moderate) Monitor lithium concentrations during concomitant use with thiazide diuretics; consider lower lithium starting doses and titrating slowly while frequently monitoring lithium concentrations and for signs of lithium toxicity. Thiazide diuretics reduce the renal clearance of lithium and increase the risk for lithium toxicity. (Moderate) Monitor serum lithium concentrations during concomitant angiotensin II receptor blocker use; reduce the lithium dose based on serum lithium concentration and clinical response. Concomitant use may increase steady-state lithium concentrations.
Lixisenatide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. Finally, both thiazides and sulfonylureas have been reported to cause photosensitivity reactions; concomitant use may increase the risk of photosensitivity.
Loop diuretics: (Moderate) Coadministration of furosemide and Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) or angiotensin II receptor antagonists may result in severe hypotension and deterioration in renal function, including renal failure. Hyponatremia or hypovolemia predisposes patients to acute hypotensive episodes following initiation of ACE inhibitor therapy. While ACE inhibitors and loop diuretics are routinely administered together in the treatment of heart failure, if an ACE inhibitor is to be administered to a patient receiving furosemide, initial doses should be conservative. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure, renal function, and serum electrolytes during concomitant loop diuretic and thiazide diuretic use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may result in additive hypotension and fluid and/or electrolyte loss.
Loratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Lurasidone: (Moderate) Due to the antagonism of lurasidone at alpha-1 adrenergic receptors, the drug may enhance the hypotensive effects of alpha-blockers and other antihypertensive agents. If concurrent use of lurasidone and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Magnesium Salicylate: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Magnesium Sulfate; Potassium Sulfate; Sodium Sulfate: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sulfate salt bowel preparation in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sulfate salt bowel preparation in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as diuretics.
Mannitol: (Major) Avoid use of other diuretics with mannitol, if possible. Concomitant administration may potentiate the renal toxicity of mannitol.
Meclofenamate Sodium: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics.
Mefenamic Acid: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics.
Meglitinides: (Moderate) Angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARB) may enhance the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by improving insulin sensitivity. In addition, angiotensin II receptor antagonists have been associated with a reduced incidence in the development of new-onset diabetes in patients with hypertension or other cardiac disease. Patients receiving an ARB in combination with antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in glycemic control. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. Finally, both thiazides and sulfonylureas have been reported to cause photosensitivity reactions; concomitant use may increase the risk of photosensitivity.
Meloxicam: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when thiazide diuretics are administered with meperidine. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Metaproterenol: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain drugs, such as thiazide diuretics, tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of glycemic control. The effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control appear to be dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, thiazide diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. Patients receiving metformin should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if any of these diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary in some patients. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
metFORMIN; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Certain drugs, such as thiazide diuretics, tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of glycemic control. The effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control appear to be dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, thiazide diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. Patients receiving metformin should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if any of these diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary in some patients. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. Finally, both thiazides and sulfonylureas have been reported to cause photosensitivity reactions; concomitant use may increase the risk of photosensitivity.
metFORMIN; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Certain drugs, such as thiazide diuretics, tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of glycemic control. The effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control appear to be dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, thiazide diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. Patients receiving metformin should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if any of these diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary in some patients. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Methadone: (Moderate) Diuretics can cause electrolyte disturbances such as hypomagnesemia and hypokalemia, which may prolong the QT interval. As methadone may also prolong the QT interval, cautious coadministration with diuretics is needed. In addition, opiate agonists may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with diuretics.
Methamphetamine: (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH. (Minor) Methamphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
methazolAMIDE: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics may increase the risk of hypokalemia if used concurrently with methazolamide. Monitor serum potassium levels to determine the need for potassium supplementation and/or alteration in drug therapy. There may also be an additive diuretic or hyperuricemic effect.
Methenamine: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics may cause the urine to become alkaline. This may reduce the effectiveness of methenamine by inhibiting its conversion to formaldehyde.
Methenamine; Sodium Acid Phosphate; Methylene Blue; Hyoscyamine: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics may cause the urine to become alkaline. This may reduce the effectiveness of methenamine by inhibiting its conversion to formaldehyde. (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Methenamine; Sodium Salicylate: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics may cause the urine to become alkaline. This may reduce the effectiveness of methenamine by inhibiting its conversion to formaldehyde.
Methohexital: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics. (Moderate) Concurrent use of methohexital and antihypertensive agents increases the risk of developing hypotension.
Methotrexate: (Moderate) Monitor for increased methotrexate-related adverse reactions during concomitant thiazide diuretic use. Thiazide diuretics may decrease renal excretion of cytotoxic agents and enhance their myelosuppressive effects.
Methoxsalen: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of methoxsalen and other photosensitizing agents, such as thiazide diuretics, can increase the incidence or severity of photsensitization from either compound.
Methscopolamine: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Methylphenidate Derivatives: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and adjust the dose of the angiotensin II blockers as needed during coadministration with methylphenidate. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of drugs used to treat hypertension. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and methylphenidate use; a thiazide diuretic dose adjustment may be necessary. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of medications used to treat hypertension.
Methylphenidate: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and adjust the dose of the angiotensin II blockers as needed during coadministration with methylphenidate. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of drugs used to treat hypertension. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and methylphenidate use; a thiazide diuretic dose adjustment may be necessary. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of medications used to treat hypertension.
methylPREDNISolone: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss.
Metoclopramide: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and prokinetic agents may result in decreased bioavailability of the thiazide diuretic.
Midodrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Miglitol: (Moderate) Angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs) may enhance the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by improving insulin sensitivity. In addition, angiotensin II receptor antagonists have been associated with a reduced incidence in the development of new-onset diabetes in patients with hypertension or other cardiac disease. Patients receiving an ARB in combination with antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in glycemic control. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Milnacipran: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) use; consider discontinuing the SNRI if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Milrinone: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of antihypertensive agents could lead to additive hypotension when administered with milrinone. Titrate milrinone dosage according to hemodynamic response.
Mirtazapine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and mirtazapine use; consider discontinuing mirtazapine if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Moexipril: (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting moexipril, if possible, or start moexipril at the lower dose of 3.75 mg/day. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure. (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
Mometasone: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss.
Morphine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and morphine; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
Nabumetone: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics.
Naproxen: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics. (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant esomeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Nateglinide: (Moderate) Angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARB) may enhance the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by improving insulin sensitivity. In addition, angiotensin II receptor antagonists have been associated with a reduced incidence in the development of new-onset diabetes in patients with hypertension or other cardiac disease. Patients receiving an ARB in combination with antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in glycemic control. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. Finally, both thiazides and sulfonylureas have been reported to cause photosensitivity reactions; concomitant use may increase the risk of photosensitivity.
Nefazodone: (Minor) Although relatively infrequent, nefazodone may cause orthostatic hypotension in some patients; this effect may be additive with antihypertensive agents. Blood pressure monitoring and dosage adjustments of either drug may be necessary. (Minor) Although relatively infrequent, nefazodone may cause orthostatic hypotension in some patients; this effect may be additive with antihypertensive agents. Blood pressure monitoring is recommended. Dependent upon clinical response, dosage adjustments of either drug may be necessary.
Neostigmine; Glycopyrrolate: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Neuromuscular blockers: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and thiazide diuretics may prolong neuromuscular blockade, possibly due to hypokalemia or alterations in potassium concentrations across the end-plate membrane.
Niacin, Niacinamide: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. This effect is of particular concern in the setting of acute myocardial infarction, unstable angina, or other acute hemodynamic compromise.
Nitrates: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Nitroglycerin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nitrates with other antihypertensive agents can cause additive hypotensive effects. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and nitrate use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Nitroprusside: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may occur when nitroprusside is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. Dosages should be adjusted carefully, according to blood pressure. (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may occur when nitroprusside is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. Dosages should be adjusted carefully, according to blood pressure.
Non-Ionic Contrast Media: (Major) Do not use diuretics before non-ionic contrast media administration. Concomitant use of diuretics and non-ionic contrast media may increase the risk for acute kidney injury, including renal failure.
Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics.
Norepinephrine: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause decreased arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine, but the effect is not sufficient to preclude their coadministration.
Octreotide: (Moderate) Patients receiving diuretics or other agents to control fluid and electrolyte balance may require dosage adjustments while receiving octreotide due to additive effects.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Olanzapine may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the effects of antihypertensive agents.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and fluoxetine use; consider discontinuing fluoxetine if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia. (Moderate) Olanzapine may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the effects of antihypertensive agents.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Olanzapine may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the effects of antihypertensive agents.
Oliceridine: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure if diuretics are used concomitantly with oliceridine; increase the dosage of the diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone.
Olodaterol: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Olopatadine; Mometasone: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss.
Omeprazole: (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Omeprazole; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant omeprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Orforglipron: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. Finally, both thiazides and sulfonylureas have been reported to cause photosensitivity reactions; concomitant use may increase the risk of photosensitivity.
Oritavancin: (Moderate) Azilsartan is metabolized by CYP2C9; oritavancin is a weak CYP2C9 inhibitor. Coadministration may result in elevated azilsartan plasma concentrations; however, no clinically relevant drug interactions were observed when azilsartan was given in combination with fluconazole, a potent CYP2C9 inhibitor. If these drugs are administered concurrently, blood pressure should be monitored closely.
Oxaprozin: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics.
oxyBUTYnin: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and oxycodone; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
Oxymetazoline: (Major) The vasoconstricting actions of oxymetazoline, an alpha adrenergic agonist, may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. If these drugs are used together, closely monitor for changes in blood pressure. (Major) The vasoconstricting actions of oxymetazoline, an alpha adrenergic agonist, may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. If these drugs are used together, closely monitor for changes in blood pressure.
oxyMORphone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when thiazide diuretics are administered with oxymorphone. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Paliperidone: (Moderate) Paliperidone may cause orthostatic hypotension, thereby enhancing the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. Orthostatic vital signs should be monitored in patients receiving paliperidone and angiotensin II receptor antagonists who are susceptible to hypotension. (Moderate) Paliperidone may cause orthostatic hypotension, thereby enhancing the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. Orthostatic vital signs should be monitored in patients receiving paliperidone and thiazide diuretics who are susceptible to hypotension.
Pantoprazole: (Moderate) Monitor magnesium concentration before and periodically during concomitant pantoprazole and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for hypomagnesemia.
Paricalcitol: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentrations during concomitant use of thiazide diuretics and vitamin D analogs; a dosage adjustment of the vitamin D analog may be needed. Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by concomitant administration.
PARoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and paroxetine use; consider discontinuing paroxetine if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Pasireotide: (Moderate) Cautious use of pasireotide and thiazide diuretics is advised as electrolyte imbalance caused by diuretics may increase the risk of QT prolongation with pasireotide. Assess the patient's potassium and magnesium concentration before and periodically during pasireotide receipt. Correct hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia before pasireotide receipt.
Pentamidine: (Moderate) Drugs that are associated with hypokalemia and/or hypomagnesemia such as thiazide diuretics should be used with caution in patients also receiving pentamidine. Since pentamidine may cause QT prolongation independently of electrolyte imbalances, the risk for cardiac arrhythmias is potentiated by the concomitant use of agents associated with electrolyte loss. Closely monitor serum electrolytes during pentamidine therapy.
Pentazocine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when thiazide diuretics are administered with pentazocine. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
PENTobarbital: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics.
Pentoxifylline: (Moderate) Pentoxifylline has been used concurrently with antihypertensive drugs (beta blockers, diuretics) without observed problems. Small decreases in blood pressure have been observed in some patients treated with pentoxifylline; periodic systemic blood pressure monitoring is recommended for patients receiving concomitant antihypertensives. If indicated, dosage of the antihypertensive agents should be reduced.
Perindopril: (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting perindopril, if possible, or start perindopril at a lower dose to minimize hypotension. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure. (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting perindopril, if possible, or start perindopril at a lower dose to minimize hypotension. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure. (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
Perphenazine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and phenothiazine use. Thiazide diuretics may potentiate the orthostatic hypotension that may occur with phenothiazines.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and phenothiazine use. Thiazide diuretics may potentiate the orthostatic hypotension that may occur with phenothiazines.
Phendimetrazine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Phenelzine: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may be seen when phenelzine is combined with angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Careful monitoring of blood pressure is suggested during concurrent therapy of phenelzine with angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Patients should be instructed to rise slowly from a sitting position, and to report syncope or changes in blood pressure or heart rate to their health care provider during concurrent use of phenelzine and angiotensin II receptor antagonists. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and phenelzine use due to risk for additive hypotension.
PHENobarbital: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics. (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Phenothiazines: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and phenothiazine use. Thiazide diuretics may potentiate the orthostatic hypotension that may occur with phenothiazines.
Phentermine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving phenylephrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure has been reported in some patients.
Photosensitizing agents (topical): (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics may cause photosensitivity and may increase the photosensitization effects of photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy. Prevention of photosensitivity includes adequate protection from sources of UV radiation (e.g., avoiding sun exposure and tanning booths) and the use of protective clothing and sunscreens on exposed skin.
Pimozide: (Moderate) Caution is advisable during concurrent use of pimozide and thiazide diuretics as electrolyte imbalance caused by diuretics may increase the risk of QT prolongation with pimozide. Potassium deficiencies should be corrected prior to treatment with pimozide and normalized potassium levels should be maintained during treatment.
Pioglitazone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant thiazolidinedione and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Pioglitazone; Glimepiride: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sulfonylurea and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant thiazolidinedione and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Pioglitazone; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain drugs, such as thiazide diuretics, tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of glycemic control. The effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control appear to be dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, thiazide diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. Patients receiving metformin should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if any of these diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary in some patients. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant thiazolidinedione and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Piroxicam: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics.
Polycarbophil: (Moderate) Coadministration may lead to hypercalcemia because thiazides cause a decrease in renal tubular excretion of calcium as well as increase in distal tubular reabsorption. Each 625 mg of calcium polycarbophil contains a substantial amount of calcium (approximately 125 mg). Moderate increases in serum calcium have been seen during the treatment with thiazides; if calcium polycarbophil is used concomitantly, monitoring of serum calcium may be prudent.
Polyethylene Glycol; Electrolytes: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sulfate salt bowel preparation in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sulfate salt bowel preparation in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as diuretics.
Polyethylene Glycol; Electrolytes; Ascorbic Acid: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sulfate salt bowel preparation in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sulfate salt bowel preparation in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as diuretics.
Porfimer: (Major) Avoid coadministration of porfimer with thiazide diuretics due to the risk of increased photosensitivity. Porfimer is a light-activated drug used in photodynamic therapy; all patients treated with porfimer will be photosensitive. Concomitant use of other photosensitizing agents like thiazide diuretics may increase the risk of a photosensitivity reaction.
Potassium Acetate: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin II receptor antagonists are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Potassium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin II receptor antagonists are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Potassium Chloride: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin II receptor antagonists are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Potassium Citrate: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin II receptor antagonists are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Potassium Citrate; Citric Acid: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin II receptor antagonists are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Potassium Gluconate: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin II receptor antagonists are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Potassium Iodide, KI: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin II receptor antagonists are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Potassium Phosphate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of potassium phosphate and angiotensin II receptor antagonists as concurrent use may increase the risk of severe and potentially fatal hyperkalemia, particularly in high-risk patients (renal impairment, cardiac disease, adrenal insufficiency). If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor serum potassium concentrations.
Potassium Phosphate; Sodium Phosphate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of potassium phosphate and angiotensin II receptor antagonists as concurrent use may increase the risk of severe and potentially fatal hyperkalemia, particularly in high-risk patients (renal impairment, cardiac disease, adrenal insufficiency). If concomitant use is necessary, closely monitor serum potassium concentrations.
Potassium: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin II receptor antagonists are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Pramlintide: (Moderate) Angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs) may enhance the hypoglycemic effects of pramlintide by improving insulin sensitivity. In addition, angiotensin II receptor antagonists have been associated with a reduced incidence in the development of new-onset diabetes in patients with hypertension or other cardiac disease. Patients receiving an ARB in combination with pramlintide should be monitored for changes in glycemic control. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. Finally, both thiazides and sulfonylureas have been reported to cause photosensitivity reactions; concomitant use may increase the risk of photosensitivity.
Prazosin: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant use of prazosin and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs). Concomitant use may produce additive hypotension and increase the risk for syncope. The risk for significant hypotension and syncope is greatest when adding an antihypertensive to a regimen that includes high dose prazosin and following a rapid dosage increase. To minimize the risk for adverse effects, consider reducing the prazosin dose to 1 to 2 mg three times a day during initiation of a new antihypertensive and then retitrating prazosin based on clinical response. (Moderate) Prazosin is well-known to produce a 'first-dose' phenomenon. Some patients develop significant hypotension shortly after administration of the first dose. The first dose response (acute postural hypotension) of prazosin may be exaggerated in patients who are receiving beta-adrenergic blockers, diuretics, or other antihypertensive agents. Concomitant administration of prazosin with other antihypertensive agents is not prohibited, however. This can be therapeutically advantageous, but lower dosages of each agent should be used.
prednisoLONE: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss.
predniSONE: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Antihypertensives, including angiotensin II receptor antagonists, antagonize the vasopressor effects of parenteral epinephrine. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and thiazide diuretic use. Thiazide diuretics may antagonize the pressor effects and potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
Primidone: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics.
Probenecid: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause hyperuricemia. Although this effect represents a pharmacodynamic interaction and not a pharmacokinetic one, dosage adjustments of probenecid may be necessary if these agents are administered concurrently to patients being treated with probenecid.
Probenecid; Colchicine: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause hyperuricemia. Although this effect represents a pharmacodynamic interaction and not a pharmacokinetic one, dosage adjustments of probenecid may be necessary if these agents are administered concurrently to patients being treated with probenecid.
Procainamide: (Moderate) Procainamide can decrease blood pressure and should be used cautiously in patients receiving antihypertensive agents. Intravenous administration of procainamide is more likely to cause hypotensive effects. (Moderate) Procainamide can decrease blood pressure and should be used cautiously in patients receiving antihypertensive agents. Intravenous administration of procainamide is more likely to cause hypotensive effects.
Prochlorperazine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and phenothiazine use. Thiazide diuretics may potentiate the orthostatic hypotension that may occur with phenothiazines.
Promethazine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and phenothiazine use. Thiazide diuretics may potentiate the orthostatic hypotension that may occur with phenothiazines.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and phenothiazine use. Thiazide diuretics may potentiate the orthostatic hypotension that may occur with phenothiazines.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and phenothiazine use. Thiazide diuretics may potentiate the orthostatic hypotension that may occur with phenothiazines. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving phenylephrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving decongestant sympathomimetics at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure, however, increased blood pressure has been reported in some patients.
Propofol: (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Pyridoxine, Vitamin B6: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Quinapril: (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting quinapril, if possible, or start quinapril at the lower dose of 5 mg/day. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure. (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting quinapril, if possible, or start quinapril at the lower dose of 5 mg/day. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure. (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
quiNIDine: (Moderate) Quinidine can decrease blood pressure and should be used cautiously in patients receiving antihypertensive agents due to the potential for additive hypotension.
RABEprazole: (Moderate) Proton pump inhibitors have been associated with hypomagnesemia. Hypomagnesemia occurs with thiazide diuretics (chlorothiazide, hydrochlorothiazide, indapamide, and metolazone). Low serum magnesium may lead to serious adverse events such as muscle spasm, seizures, and arrhythmias. Therefore, clinicians should monitor serum magnesium concentrations periodically in patients taking a PPI and diuretics concomitantly. Patients who develop hypomagnesemia may require PPI discontinuation in addition to magnesium replacement.
Ramipril: (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting ramipril, if possible, or start ramipril at a lower dose to minimize hypotension. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure. (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may be seen when monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) are combined with antihypertensives. Careful monitoring of blood pressure is suggested during concurrent therapy of MAOIs with diuretics. Patients should be instructed to rise slowly from a sitting position, and to report syncope or changes in blood pressure or heart rate to their health care provider. (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may be seen when rasagiline is combined with angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Careful monitoring of blood pressure is suggested during coadministration. Patients should be instructed to rise slowly from a sitting position, and to report syncope or changes in blood pressure or heart rate to their health care provider.
Regular Insulin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin II receptor blocker use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control when thiazide diuretics are instituted or discontinued; dosage adjustments may be required. Thiazide diuretics can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of insulin by producing an increase in blood glucose levels. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes.
Regular Insulin; Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and angiotensin II receptor blocker use; an insulin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving insulin closely for changes in diabetic control when thiazide diuretics are instituted or discontinued; dosage adjustments may be required. Thiazide diuretics can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of insulin by producing an increase in blood glucose levels. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes.
Remifentanil: (Moderate) Opiate agonists may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics.
Repaglinide: (Moderate) Angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARB) may enhance the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by improving insulin sensitivity. In addition, angiotensin II receptor antagonists have been associated with a reduced incidence in the development of new-onset diabetes in patients with hypertension or other cardiac disease. Patients receiving an ARB in combination with antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in glycemic control. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. Finally, both thiazides and sulfonylureas have been reported to cause photosensitivity reactions; concomitant use may increase the risk of photosensitivity.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Risperidone may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the hypotensive effects of angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Lower initial doses or slower dose titration of risperidone may be necessary in patients receiving angiotensin II receptor antagonists concomitantly. (Moderate) Risperidone may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. Lower initial doses or slower dose titration of risperidone may be necessary in patients receiving antihypertensive agents concomitantly.
Rocuronium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and thiazide diuretics may prolong neuromuscular blockade, possibly due to hypokalemia or alterations in potassium concentrations across the end-plate membrane.
Salicylates: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Salmeterol: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Salsalate: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. Finally, both thiazides and sulfonylureas have been reported to cause photosensitivity reactions; concomitant use may increase the risk of photosensitivity.
Scopolamine: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Secobarbital: (Moderate) Barbiturates may potentiate orthostatic hypotension when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics.
Semaglutide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. Finally, both thiazides and sulfonylureas have been reported to cause photosensitivity reactions; concomitant use may increase the risk of photosensitivity.
Serdexmethylphenidate; Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and adjust the dose of the angiotensin II blockers as needed during coadministration with methylphenidate. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of drugs used to treat hypertension. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and methylphenidate use; a thiazide diuretic dose adjustment may be necessary. Methylphenidate may decrease the effectiveness of medications used to treat hypertension.
Serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) use; consider discontinuing the SNRI if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Sertraline: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and sertraline use; consider discontinuing sertraline if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Sevoflurane: (Moderate) General anesthetics can potentiate the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents.
SGLT2 Inhibitors: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Silodosin: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
SITagliptin: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Sodium Nitrite; Sodium Thiosulfate: (Moderate) Sodium nitrite causes vasodilation resulting in hypotension. Antihypertensive agents and other hypotension-producing agents such as vasodilators and tricyclic antidepressants can cause additive hypotensive or orthostatic effects.
Sodium Phosphate Monobasic Monohydrate; Sodium Phosphate Dibasic Anhydrous: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous. (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as diuretics, may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients taking sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Sodium picosulfate; Magnesium oxide; Anhydrous citric acid: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk. (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as diuretics. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
Sodium Sulfate; Magnesium Sulfate; Potassium Chloride: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin II receptor antagonists are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Solifenacin: (Minor) Diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms. Risk versus benefit should be addressed in patients receiving diuretics and solifenacin.
Sotagliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Sparsentan: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of sparsentan and angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) is contraindicated due to the additive risk for serious adverse effects such as hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and renal dysfunction.
Spironolactone: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if angiotensin II receptor antagonists and spironolactone are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in elderly patients or patients with impaired renal function. Coadministration may also result in increases in serum creatinine in heart failure patients.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if angiotensin II receptor antagonists and spironolactone are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia, especially in elderly patients or patients with impaired renal function. Coadministration may also result in increases in serum creatinine in heart failure patients.
Streptozocin: (Minor) Because streptozocin is nephrotoxic, concurrent or subsequent administration of other nephrotoxic agents (e.g., aminoglycosides, amphotericin B, cisplatin, foscarnet, or diuretics) could exacerbate the renal insult.
Succinylcholine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and thiazide diuretics may prolong neuromuscular blockade, possibly due to hypokalemia or alterations in potassium concentrations across the end-plate membrane.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when thiazide diuretics are administered with sufentanil. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Sulfacetamide: (Moderate) Sulfonamides may cause photosensitization and may increase the photosensitizing effects of thiazide diuretics.
Sulfacetamide; Sulfur: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. (Moderate) Sulfonamides may cause photosensitization and may increase the photosensitizing effects of thiazide diuretics.
Sulfamethoxazole; Trimethoprim, SMX-TMP, Cotrimoxazole: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sulfamethoxazole; trimethoprim and thiazide diuretics. An increased incidence of thrombocytopenia with purpura has been reported in elderly patients during coadministration. (Moderate) Monitor for hyperkalemia if concomitant use of an angiotensin II receptor antagonist and trimethoprim is necessary. Avoid concomitant use and consider alternative antibiotic therapy in patients with additional risk factors for hyperkalemia, including patients older than 65 years, those with underlying disorders of potassium metabolism, renal insufficiency, or those requiring high doses of trimethoprim. Amongst patients older than 65 years, concomitant use has been associated with a 2- to 7-fold increased risk of significant hyperkalemia compared to other antibiotics. Trimethoprim has a potassium-sparing effect on the distal nephron and may induce hyperkalemia, especially in those with pre-existing risk factors.
Sulfonylureas: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sulfonylurea and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Sulindac: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics.
Sulopenem Etzadroxil; Probenecid: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause hyperuricemia. Although this effect represents a pharmacodynamic interaction and not a pharmacokinetic one, dosage adjustments of probenecid may be necessary if these agents are administered concurrently to patients being treated with probenecid.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics.
Tapentadol: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when thiazide diuretics are administered with tapentadol. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Tazarotene: (Moderate) The manufacturer states that tazarotene should be administered with caution in patients who are also taking drugs known to be photosensitizers, such as thiazide diuretics, as concomitant use may augment phototoxicity. Patients should take care and use proper techniques to limit sunlight and UV exposure of treated areas.
Tegaserod: (Minor) Coadminisitration of thiazides and prokinetic agents may result in decreased bioavailability of the thiazide diuretic.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. In some patients, this may be desirable, but orthostatic hypotension may occur. Angiotensin II receptor antagonists tend to reverse the potassium loss, but not the serum uric acid rise associated with thiazide diuretic monotherapy.
Terbutaline: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Tetrabenazine: (Moderate) Tetrabenazine may induce orthostatic hypotension and thus enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents. Lower initial doses or slower dose titration of tetrabenazine may be necessary in patients receiving antihypertensive agents concomitantly.
Tetracaine: (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents. Use extreme caution with the concomitant use of tetracaine and antihypertensive agents.
Thiazolidinediones: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant thiazolidinedione and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Thioridazine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and phenothiazine use. Thiazide diuretics may potentiate the orthostatic hypotension that may occur with phenothiazines.
Thiothixene: (Moderate) Thiothixene should be used cautiously in patients receiving antihypertensive agents. Additive hypotensive effects are possible.
Tiotropium; Olodaterol: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Tirzepatide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between thiazide diuretics and antidiabetic agents. It appears that the effects of thiazide diuretics on glycemic control are dose-related and low doses can be instituted without deleterious effects on glycemic control. In addition, diuretics reduce the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease in patients with diabetes. However, patients taking antidiabetic agents should be monitored for changes in blood glucose control if such diuretics are added or deleted. Dosage adjustments may be necessary. Finally, both thiazides and sulfonylureas have been reported to cause photosensitivity reactions; concomitant use may increase the risk of photosensitivity.
tiZANidine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine with antihypertensive agents can result in significant hypotension. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and tizanidine use due to risk for additive hypotension.
Tolmetin: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and renal function periodically during concomitant angiotensin II blocker and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II blockers may be diminished by NSAIDs. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted, or with compromised renal function, coadministration of angiotensin II blockers and NSAIDs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and thiazide diuretic use. NSAIDs may cause a dose-dependent reduction in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation, and concomitant diuretic use increases the risk of this reaction. NSAIDs have been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of thiazide diuretics and are associated with fluid retention which may blunt the cardiovascular effects of diuretics.
Tolterodine: (Minor) Diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Tolvaptan: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if tolvaptan and angiotensin II receptor blockers are used together. In clinical studies, hyperkalemia was reported at a rate 1% to 2% higher when tolvaptan was administered with angiotensin II receptor blockers compared to administration of these medications with placebo. (Moderate) Monitor serum sodium closely if tolvaptan and thiazide diuretics are used together. Coadministration increases the risk of too rapid correction of serum sodium.
Toremifene: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium levels in patients receiving concomitant treatment with toremifene and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics decrease renal calcium excretion and may increase the risk of hypercalcemia in patients receiving toremifene.
Torsemide: (Moderate) Coadministration of furosemide and Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) or angiotensin II receptor antagonists may result in severe hypotension and deterioration in renal function, including renal failure. Hyponatremia or hypovolemia predisposes patients to acute hypotensive episodes following initiation of ACE inhibitor therapy. While ACE inhibitors and loop diuretics are routinely administered together in the treatment of heart failure, if an ACE inhibitor is to be administered to a patient receiving furosemide, initial doses should be conservative. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure, renal function, and serum electrolytes during concomitant loop diuretic and thiazide diuretic use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may result in additive hypotension and fluid and/or electrolyte loss.
traMADol: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and tramadol; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure during coadministration of a thiazide diuretic and tramadol; increase the dosage of the thiazide diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Opioids may also potentiate orthostatic hypotension when given concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic.
Trandolapril: (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting trandolapril, if possible, or start trandolapril at the lower dose of 0.5 mg/day. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure. (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Major) Discontinue the thiazide diuretic prior to starting trandolapril, if possible, or start trandolapril at the lower dose of 0.5 mg/day. Monitor blood pressure, particularly when doses are increased, and renal function during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hypotension or renal failure. (Major) In general, avoid combined use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) due to lack of benefit with concomitant use in most patients. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on ACE inhibitors and ARBs. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors and ARBs is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, compared to monotherapy.
Tranylcypromine: (Contraindicated) The use of hypotensive agents and tranylcypromine is contraindicated by the manufacturer of tranylcypromine because the effects of hypotensive agents may be markedly potentiated.
traZODone: (Minor) Due to additive hypotensive effects, patients receiving antihypertensive agents concurrently with trazodone may have excessive hypotension. Decreased dosage of the antihypertensive agent may be required when given with trazodone.
Treprostinil: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can enhance the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive agents or diuretics if given concomitantly. This additive effect may be desirable, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly.
Tretinoin, ATRA: (Moderate) A manufacturer of topical tretinoin states that tretinoin, ATRA should be administered with caution in patients who are also taking drugs known to be photosensitizers, such as thiazide diuretics, as concomitant use may augment phototoxicity. Patients should take care and use proper techniques to limit sunlight and UV exposure of treated areas.
Tretinoin; Benzoyl Peroxide: (Moderate) A manufacturer of topical tretinoin states that tretinoin, ATRA should be administered with caution in patients who are also taking drugs known to be photosensitizers, such as thiazide diuretics, as concomitant use may augment phototoxicity. Patients should take care and use proper techniques to limit sunlight and UV exposure of treated areas.
Triamcinolone: (Moderate) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticosteroid and thiazide diuretic use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticosteroids and thiazide diuretics cause increased renal potassium loss.
Triamterene: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations in patients receiving angiotensin II receptor antagonists concomitantly with triamterene. Concomitant use may result in hyperkalemia.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations in patients receiving angiotensin II receptor antagonists concomitantly with triamterene. Concomitant use may result in hyperkalemia.
Trifluoperazine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant thiazide diuretic and phenothiazine use. Thiazide diuretics may potentiate the orthostatic hypotension that may occur with phenothiazines.
Trihexyphenidyl: (Minor) Coadministration of thiazides and antimuscarinics (e.g., atropine and biperiden) may result in increased bioavailability of the thiazide. This is apparently a result of a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and rate of stomach emptying by the antimuscarinic agent. In addition, diuretics can increase urinary frequency, which may aggravate bladder symptoms.
Trimethoprim: (Moderate) Monitor for hyperkalemia if concomitant use of an angiotensin II receptor antagonist and trimethoprim is necessary. Avoid concomitant use and consider alternative antibiotic therapy in patients with additional risk factors for hyperkalemia, including patients older than 65 years, those with underlying disorders of potassium metabolism, renal insufficiency, or those requiring high doses of trimethoprim. Amongst patients older than 65 years, concomitant use has been associated with a 2- to 7-fold increased risk of significant hyperkalemia compared to other antibiotics. Trimethoprim has a potassium-sparing effect on the distal nephron and may induce hyperkalemia, especially in those with pre-existing risk factors.
Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Vecuronium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and thiazide diuretics may prolong neuromuscular blockade, possibly due to hypokalemia or alterations in potassium concentrations across the end-plate membrane.
Venlafaxine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) use; consider discontinuing the SNRI if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Verteporfin: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of verteporfin with thiazide diuretics is necessary due to the risk of increased photosensitivity. Verteporfin is a light-activated drug used in photodynamic therapy; all patients treated with verteporfin will be photosensitive. Concomitant use of other photosensitizing agents like thiazide diuretics may increase the risk of a photosensitivity reaction.
Vilazodone: (Moderate) Patients receiving vilazodone with medications known to cause hyponatremia, such as diuretics, may be at increased risk of developing hyponatremia. Hyponatremia has occurred in association with the use of antidepressants such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), and mirtazapine. Hyponatremia may manifest as headache, difficulty concentrating, memory impairment, confusion, weakness, and unsteadiness which may result in falls. Severe manifestations include hallucinations, syncope, seizure, coma, respiratory arrest, and death. Symptomatic hyponatremia may require discontinuation of vilazodone, as well as implementation of the appropriate medical interventions.
Vitamin B Complex Supplements: (Moderate) Cutaneous vasodilation induced by niacin may become problematic if high-dose niacin is used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. This effect is of particular concern in the setting of acute myocardial infarction, unstable angina, or other acute hemodynamic compromise.
Vitamin D analogs: (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentrations during concomitant use of thiazide diuretics and vitamin D analogs; a dosage adjustment of the vitamin D analog may be needed. Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by concomitant administration.
Vitamin D: (Moderate) Dose adjustment of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs may be necessary during coadministration with thiazide diuretics. Additionally, serum calcium concentrations should be monitored frequently. Monitor more frequently in patients with a history of hypercalcemia. Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by coadministration of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics are known to induce hypercalcemia by reducing the excretion of calcium in the urine. (Moderate) Monitor serum calcium concentration during concomitant calcium and thiazide diuretic use due to the risk for hypercalcemia. Thiazide diuretics may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause intermittent and slight increases in serum calcium.
Vitamin D: (Moderate) Dose adjustment of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs may be necessary during coadministration with thiazide diuretics. Additionally, serum calcium concentrations should be monitored frequently. Monitor more frequently in patients with a history of hypercalcemia. Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by coadministration of vitamin D or vitamin D analogs and thiazide diuretics. Thiazide diuretics are known to induce hypercalcemia by reducing the excretion of calcium in the urine.
Vorinostat: (Moderate) Use vorinostat and thiazide diuretics together with caution; the risk of QT prolongation and arrhythmias may be increased if electrolyte abnormalities occur. Thiazide diuretics may cause electrolyte imbalances including low potassium; hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia may increase the risk of QT prolongation with vorinostat. Frequently monitor serum electrolytes if concomitant use of these drugs is necessary.
Vortioxetine: (Moderate) Patients receiving a diuretic during treatment with vortioxetine may be at greater risk of developing syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). Clinically significant hyponatremia has been reported during therapy with vortioxetine. One case involving serum sodium levels lower than 110 mmol/l has occurred. Hyponatremia may be potentiated by agents which can cause sodium depletion such as diuretics. Discontinuation of vortioxetine should be considered in patients who develop symptomatic hyponatremia.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Chlorthalidone has been associated with a decreased anticoagulation response to warfarin. Monitor coagulation parameters and adjust warfarin dosage as needed.
Ziconotide: (Moderate) Patients taking diuretics with ziconotide may be at higher risk of depressed levels of consciousness. If altered consciousness occurs, consideration of diuretic cessation is warranted in addition to ziconotide discontinuation.
Ziprasidone: (Moderate) Monitor potassium and magnesium levels when thiazide diuretics are used during ziprasidone therapy. The risk of QT prolongation from ziprasidone is increased in the presence of hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia. (Minor) Ziprasidone is a moderate antagonist of alpha-1 receptors and may cause orthostatic hypotension with or without tachycardia, dizziness, or syncope. Additive hypotensive effects are possible if ziprasidone is used concurrently with antihypertensive agents.


Adverse Reaction
General Information

NOTE: This monograph discusses the use of azilsartan; chlorthalidone combination products. Clinicians may consult the individual monographs for more information about each agent. Azilsartan; chlorthalidone is generally well tolerated; adverse reactions are mild and transient. During clinical trials, adverse reactions were less frequent during titration studies compared to fixed-dose trials.
 
An increase in blood creatinine is a known effect of drugs that block the renin-angiotensin aldosterone system, like ARBs and ACE inhibitors, and is related to degree of blood pressure reduction. The incidence of consecutive increases of creatinine >= 50% from baseline and greater than the upper limit of normal was 2% in patients treated with azilsartan; chlorthalidone compared to 0.4% and 0.3% for azilsartan and chlorthalidone monotherapy, respectively. During clinical trials, elevations of serum creatinine was the most common reason for discontinuation of therapy with azilsartan; chlorthalidone (3.6%). Creatinine elevations are typically non-progressive and reversible and are associated with large reductions in blood pressure. The mean increase in blood urea nitrogen (BUN) seen with azilsartan; chlorthalidone was 5.3 mg/dL compared to 1.5 mg/dL and 2.5 mg/dL seen with azilsartan and chlorthalidone monotherapy, respectively.

teratogenesis


Drugs that affect the renin-angiotensin system such as the azilsartan component of azilsartan; chlorthalidone have been associated with teratogenesis when administered to women during the second or third trimesters of pregnancy.


new primary malignancy


Data from a meta-analysis suggest that the use of ARBs, such as azilsartan, may be associated with an increased risk of new primary malignancy. A meta-analysis including data from over 1000 patients in several long-term, randomized, controlled clinical trials evaluating ARBs (mean duration follow-up ranged from 1.7 to 4.8 years) reported the frequencies of new cancer occurrence to be 7.2% for patients receiving ARBs compared to 6% for those not receiving ARBs (RR = 1.08, 95% CI = 1.01 to 1.15). No statistically significant difference in cancer deaths was noted. It should be noted that limitations of the meta-analysis include that adjudication of reported cancer events did not occur, and the majority of patients in the meta-analysis took telmisartan. A review by the FDA is ongoing; the FDA has not concluded that ARBs increase the risk of cancer. Also, the FDA states that the benefits of ARBs continue to outweigh the potential risks, and patients should continue to take their prescribed ARBs.


hypotension, orthostatic hypotension, syncope


Hypotension and syncope were reported in 1.7% and 0.3%, respectively, of patients during pre-marketing evaluation of azilsartan; chlorthalidone. Loss of consciousness and syncope also have been reported during postmarketing use. Patients with pre-existing hypovolemia or hypotension should have their condition corrected before azilsartan; chlorthalidone is initiated. Orthostatic hypotension may occur and can be exacerbated by concurrent use of alcohol, narcotics, or antihypertensive drugs. An increased risk of falls has been reported for elderly patients receiving thiazide diuretics, most likely related to syncope. In addition, the antihypertensive effects of thiazides may be enhanced in other patients predisposed for orthostatic hypotension, including the post-sympathectomy patient.


hyperkalemia, hypokalemia, hyponatremia


Azilsartan; chlorthalidone may cause electrolyte imbalance. Drugs that affect the renin angiotensin system such as azilsartan have can cause hyperkalemia. Thiazide diuretics can cause hyponatremia and hypokalemia. Although hypokalemia can occur during therapy with azilsartan; chlorthalidone, the incidence is significantly lower that that seen with chlorthalidone alone. During clinical trials, in patients with normal potassium concentrations, 1.7% of patients treated with azilsartan; chlorthalidone, 0.9% of azilsartan-treated patients, and 13.4% of chlorthalidone-treated patients developed hypokalemia (< 3.4 mmol/L).]


hyperuricemia


Chlorthalidone, like other thiazide class diuretics, produces dose-related elevations in serum uric acid; hyperuricemia has been reported clinically in patients. It is also possible that frank gout may be precipitated in certain patients receiving azilsartan; chlorthalidone.


azotemia, oliguria, renal failure (unspecified)


Azilsartan; chlorthalidone is contraindicated in patients with anuria and should be used cautiously in patients with renal impairment. In patients with renal impairment, chlorthalidone may precipitate azotemia. In patients whose renal function is critically dependent on the activity of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAS), oliguria, progressive azotemia, and rarely renal failure (unspecified) and death have been reported after treatment with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs) or angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs). In any patient, if progressive renal impairment occurs, as evident by increased blood urea nitrogen, consider withholding or discontinuing therapy.


asthenia, dizziness, fatigue, headache


CNS adverse reactions that have been reported with azilsartan; chlorthalidone therapy include dizziness and fatigue. Dizziness was reported in 8.9% of patients treated with azilsasrtan; chlorthalidone compared to 1.7% treated with azilsartan alone and 1.9% treated with chlorthalidone alone. Dizziness was one of the most common reasons for discontinuation of therapy with azilsartan; chlorthalidone (2.3%). Fatigue was reported in 2% of patients treated with azilsartan; chlorthalidone compared to 0.6% treated with azilsartan alone and 1.3% treated with chlorthalidone monotherapy. Asthenia, dizziness, and postural dizziness were reported in >= 0.3% of patients during azilsartan monotherapy clinical trials. Headache and dizziness were reported in patients during chlorthalidone monotherapy clinical trials.


diarrhea, dyspepsia, nausea


Nausea and diarrhea were each reported in >= 0.3% of patients in azilsartan monotherapy clinical trials, and dyspepsia was reported during chlorthalidone monotherapy clinical trials.


muscle cramps


During clinical trials of azilsartan monotherapy, muscle spasms (muscle cramps) were reported in >= 0.3% of patients; the incidence in patients receiving azilsartan; chlorthalidone is not known.


cough


Cough was reported in >= 0.3% of patients during azilsartan monotherapy clinical trials; the incidence in patients receiving azilsartan; chlorthalidone is unknown.


hypercholesterolemia


Hypercholesterolemia has been reported during clinical trials of chlorthalidone. Although the incidence in patients receiving azilsartan; chlorthalidone is unknown, it may be appropriate to periodically monitor serum cholesterol concentrations in these patients.


pruritus, rash (unspecified)


Rash (unspecified) has been reported during clinical trials of chlorthalidone and during postmarketing experience with azilsartan; chlorthalidone. Pruritus has also been reported during postmarketing use of azilsartan; chlorthalidone.


angioedema


Theoretically, angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARBs) should be less likely than angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs) to precipitate angioedema because ARBs do not cause accumulation of kinins. However, angioedema (swelling of lips and eyelids, facial rash) has been reported during postmarketing experience with azilsartan; chlorthalidone.


Description

Azilsartan; chlorthalidone is an oral combination product for the treatment of hypertension. Azilsartan is an angiotensin II receptor antagonist, also known as an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) Chlorthalidone is a thiazide diuretic. The combination of an ARB with a low-dose, thiazide-type diuretic results in additive blood pressure reduction. The likelihood of achieving target blood pressure goals (less than 140/90 mmHg) for a patient with a baseline blood pressure of 140/105 mmHg is 48% on azilsartan monotherapy, 51% systolic and 40% diastolic with chlorthalidone monotherapy, and 85% with the combination of azilsartan and chlorthalidone. Azilsartan; chlorthalidone was approved by the FDA in December 2011.

Mechanism Of Action

NOTE: This monograph discusses the use of azilsartan; chlorthalidone combination products. Clinicians may wish to consult the individual monographs for more information about each agent.
 
The effects of azilsartan and chlorthalidone on blood pressure are additive. Azilsartan blocks the vasoconstriction and sodium retention caused by angiotensin II on cardiac, adrenal, renal, and vascular smooth muscle cells. Chlorthalidone increases sodium and chloride excretion at the cortical diluting segment of the ascending limb of the loop of Henle, producing diuresis.
 
Azilsartan: Azilsartan antagonizes angiotensin II at the AT1 receptor subtype in tissues like vascular smooth muscle and the adrenal gland. Two angiotensin II receptors, AT1 and AT2, have been identified; azilsartan exhibits more than 10,000-fold greater affinity for the AT1 receptor than the AT2 receptor. The AT2 subtype is not known to mediate cardiovascular homeostasis. Angiotensin II is the primary vasoactive hormone of the renin-angiotensin system and plays an important role in the pathophysiology of hypertension and congestive heart failure. Angiotensin II produces effects including vasoconstriction, stimulation and release of aldosterone, cardiac stimulation, and renal reabsorption of sodium. By selectively blocking the AT1 receptor in tissues such as vascular smooth muscle and the adrenal gland, azilsartan blocks the vasoconstrictor and aldosterone-secreting effects of angiotensin II. Blocking the angiotensin II receptor inhibits negative regulatory feedback of angiotensin II on renin section, but the increased renin activity does not overcome the effect of azilsartan on blood pressure. Because azilsartan does not inhibit ACE, it also does not inhibit the breakdown of bradykinin.
Chlorthalidone: Chlorthalidone produces diuresis, with increased excretion of sodium and chloride, by inhibiting sodium ion transport across the renal tubular epithelium. Its primary site of action is in the cortical diluting segment of the ascending limb of the loop of Henle. Diuresis leads to decreased extracellular fluid volume, plasma volume, cardiac output, total exchangeable sodium, glomerular filtration rate, and renal plasma flow. Although the mechanism is not completely understood, sodium and water depletion appear to provide a basis for the antihypertensive effect of chlorthalidone.


Pharmacokinetics

Azilsartan; chlorthalidone is administered orally. Pharmacodynamically, a single dose of 32 mg azilsartan inhibits the maximal pressor effect by approximately 90% at peak and about 60% at 24 hours. Plasma angiotensin I and II concentrations and plasma renin activity increase while plasma aldosterone concentrations decrease after single and repeated administration of azilsartan. The diuretic effect of chlorthalidone is seen in approximately 2.6 hours and continues for up to 72 hours.
 
Azilsartan: Azilsartan is highly bound to plasma proteins (i.e., > 99%), mainly serum albumin. The primary metabolites of azilsartan are M-I (minor) and M-II (major) and account for about < 1% and approximately 50% of the dose, respectively. M-I and M-II do not contribute to the pharmacologic activity of azilsartan. CYP2C9 is the major enzyme responsible for the metabolism of azilsartan. The elimination half-life of azilsartan is approximately 11 to 13 hours. Steady state concentrations are achieved within 5 days and no accumulation in plasma occurs with once-daily dosing. Approximately 55% of the administered dose is eliminated in the feces, and approximately 42% in the urine.
Chlorthalidone: Chlorthalidone is 75% bound to plasma proteins (58% bound to albumin) and is also highly bound to red blood cells, with carbonic anhydrase as the binding site. Chlorthalidone crosses the placenta and is distributed into human breast milk. The onset of action is about 2 hours, with peak effects occurring in 2 to 6 hours and the duration of action lasting 48 to 72 hours. The majority of the drug is excreted unchanged by the kidneys. The mean half-life of chlorthalidone is approximately 42 to 45 hours.


Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route

Following oral administration of azilsartan; chlorthalidone, Cmax of azilsartan and chlorthalidone are reached at 3 and 1 hours, respectively. The rate (Cmax and Tmax) and extent (AUC) of absorption of azilsartan are similar when administered alone or in combination with chlorthalidone. The extent of chlorthalidone absorption is similar when administered alone or in combination with azilsartan; however, the Cmax of chlorthalidone from the combination product is 47% higher. The bioavailability of azilsartan; chlorthalidone is not affected by food.
Azilsartan: Azilsartan medoxomil is hydrolyzed to the active metabolite, azilsartan, in the gastrointestinal tract during absorption. Azilsartan is rapidly absorbed, with peak plasma concentrations occurring 1.5 to 3 hours after oral administration. The estimated absolute bioavailability is approximately 60% and is not affected by food.
Chlorthalidone: Chlorthalidone is absorbed from the GI tract following oral administration, with a bioavailability of about 65%.


Hepatic Impairment

Azilsartan; chlorthalidone has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment. The Cmax and AUC of azilsartan are modestly increased in patients with mild-to-moderate hepatic impairment; no dosage adjustment is recommended by the manufacturer for these patients.

Renal Impairment

Azilsartan; chlorthalidone has not been studied in patients with severe renal impairment.
Azilsartan: In patients with renal impairment, the AUC and Cmax of azilsartan are elevated compared to normal controls; no dosage adjustment is required for patients with mild or moderate renal impairment.
Chlorthalidone: Chlorthalidone is excreted renally. Thiazide diuretics are considered ineffective when the creatinine clearance is less than 30 ml/minute and are contraindicated in patients with anuria.


Geriatric

In elderly patients, the AUC and Cmax of azilsartan are elevated compared to younger patients; however, the effects are modest and no dosage adjustment is required.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Oral Administration
Oral Solid Formulations


May be given with or without food.
Dispense in original package to protect from light and moisture; do not repackage.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

40 mg/day PO azilsartan; 25 mg/day PO chlorthalidone.

Geriatric

40 mg/day PO azilsartan; 25 mg/day PO chlorthalidone.

Adolescents

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Children

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

Edarbyclor 40mg-12.5mg Tablet

Edarbyclor 40mg-25mg Tablet

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

No dosage adjustment of azilsartan is recommended by the manufacturer in patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment. Azilsartan has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment. In general, use diuretics, such as chlorthalidone, with caution in patients with hepatic disease because minor alterations of fluid and electrolyte balance may precipitate hepatic coma.

Renal Impairment

NOTE: The use of chlorthalidone in patients with renal impairment may precipitate azotemia.
CrCl >= 30 mL/min: No dosage adjustments needed.
CrCl < 30 mL/min: Safety and efficacy have not been established.

© 2026 Elsevier