=== Frovatriptan (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 2446)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Frovatriptan is a central serotonin-receptor 1B and 1D agonist that is indicated for the treatment of acute migraine attacks with or without aura.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 7.5 mg/day PO for acute migraine treatment.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): dysesthesia, hyperesthesia, hypoesthesia, paresthesias, conjunctivitis, ocular pain, visual impairment, arthralgia, back pain, muscle cramps, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, myasthenia, peripheral vasoconstriction, bullous rash, hot flashes, hyperhidrosis, pruritus, increased urinary frequency, nocturia, polyuria, dehydration, hypocalcemia, hypoglycemia, polydipsia, dyspnea, hyperventilation, laryngitis, pharyngitis, rhinitis

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Frovatriptan is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to frovatriptan or any of its ingredients. Rare, but serious adverse cardiac effects, including heart attacks, life-threatening disturbances of cardiac rhythm, and death have been reported within a few hours of receiving 5-HT1...

Brand Names
  - Frova

Dosage Forms
  - Frovatriptan 2.5mg Oral tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        2.5 mg PO as a single dose. May repeat dose after at least 2 hours if headache returns. Max: 7.5 mg/day. There is no evidence that a second dose of frovatriptan is effective for persons who do not respond to a first dose for the same headache. The safety of treating an average of more than 4 headaches/30 days has not been established. Guidelines classify frovatriptan as having established efficacy for the acute treatment of migraine.
    Heading
    For the acute treatment of migraine with or without aura
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        5 mg PO twice daily on day 1, then 2.5 mg PO twice daily on days 2 through 6. Begin 2 days before the anticipated onset of menstrual migraine. Guidelines classify frovatriptan as having established efficacy for menstrual migraine prophylaxis.
    Heading
    For menstrual migraine prophylaxis†

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Frovatriptan is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to frovatriptan or any of its ingredients.
 
Rare, but serious adverse cardiac effects, including heart attacks, life-threatening disturbances of cardiac rhythm, and death have been reported within a few hours of receiving 5-HT1 agonists. Many of these patients had concurrent cardiovascular risk factors; therefore, it is difficult to assess causality. Frovatriptan and other 5-HT agonists may cause coronary vasospasm, and therefore are contraindicated in patients with known or suspected coronary artery disease (CAD), angina pectoris, vasospastic angina such as Prinzmetal's variant angina, arteriosclerosis, silent myocardial ischemia, acute myocardial infarction, history of myocardial infarction, or other significant cardiac disease. Patients with CAD risk factors (e.g., high blood pressure, diabetes mellitus, hypercholesterolemia, obesity, tobacco smoking, strong family history, female with surgical or physiological menopause, or male > 40 years old) should not be given frovatriptan unless a cardiac evaluation determines they are reasonably free of CAD, myocardial ischemia, or other significant cardiac disease. Patients who are long-term users of frovatriptan and who have or acquire risk factors predictive of CAD should undergo periodic cardiac evaluation. For patients with risk factors predictive of CAD who are determined to have a satisfactory cardiac evaluation, the first dose of frovatriptan should be given in a controlled setting such as a clinic or physician's office. ECG monitoring is strongly encouraged due to the possibility of asymptomatic cardiac ischemia during the time immediately following frovatriptan administration in patients with risk factors. In addition, patients with cardiac arrhythmias should not receive frovatriptan as rhythm disturbances have been reported with the use of 5-HT agonists. Patients with symptomatic Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome or cardiac arrhythmias associated with other cardiac accessory conduction pathway disorders should not receive frovatriptan because serious cardiac events have been reported within a few hours of receiving 5-HT1 agonists.
 
Frovatriptan is contraindicated in patients with uncontrolled hypertension. Serotonin agonists may produce significant increases in blood pressure in patients with and without a history of hypertension.
 
Frovatriptan is contraindicated in patients with peripheral vascular disease including ischemic bowel disease (ischemic colitis) and Raynaud's disease. Peripheral vascular ischemia and colonic ischemia with abdominal pain and bloody diarrhea have been reported with 5-HT1 agonists.
 
Frovatriptan is contraindicated in patients with cerebrovascular disease (i.e., stroke or transient ischemic attacks), and should be avoided in the presence of intracranial bleeding due to the vasospastic effects of 5-HT agonists. While stroke, cerebral hemorrhage, and related fatalities have been reported following administration of 5-HT1 agonists, these events may have been present prior to administration of the drug, and the drug was mistakenly given in response to the cerebrovascular symptoms. However, patients with migraines may be at an increased risk for cerebrovascular events (e.g. stroke, hemorrhage).
 
Frovatriptan is contraindicated in basilar/hemiplegic migraine because safety and efficacy have not been established. Frovatriptan is not recommended for prophylaxis of migraine headaches or for the treatment of cluster headaches.
 
Frovatriptan is metabolized in the liver via CYP1A2. While the manufacturer has not recommended dosage adjustment in mild to moderate hepatic disease, no data are available for patients with moderate to severe hepatic impairment.
 
Frovatriptan and/or it's metabolites may bind to the melanin of the eye. Although no effects on the retina were noted during toxicity studies, because there could be accumulation in melanin rich tissue over time there is the possibility that frovatriptan could cause toxicity after extended use, resulting in visual disturbance.
 
Frovatriptan is classified as FDA pregnancy risk category C. Studies where pregnant rats were given 130 to 1,300 times the maximum recommended human dose found dose related increases in fetal abnormalities. However, when rabbits were given up to 210 times the maximum recommended human dose no effects on fetal development were found. There have been no adequate and well controlled studies in pregnant women; therefore, frovatriptan should be used with caution when considering administration to pregnant women.
 
It is not known whether frovatriptan is excreted in human breast milk. Studies found that frovatriptan is present in the milk of lactating rats, with maximum concentrations being four-fold higher than that seen in the blood. The low molecular weight (roughly 243), low protein-binding, and long elimination half-life (26 hours) suggest that frovatriptan may accumulate in breast milk; however, it is still probably compatible with nursing. In general, if a nursing mother requires an antimigraine serotonin agonist, other agents with shorter half-lives may be preferred, although data confirming that are not available. Caution should be used when considering the administration of frovatriptan to breast-feeding women.
 
Safety and efficacy of frovatriptan has not been established in children < 18 years of age.
 
Patients should be advised against driving or operating machinery until they know how frovatriptan will affect them.
 
Safety and effectiveness of frovatriptan therapy in elderly patients has not been established; data are limited. The elderly are more likely to have decreased hepatic function, more pronounced blood pressure increases, and are at a higher risk for coronary artery disease (CAD).
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    basilar/hemiplegic migraine
    General Information
    Frovatriptan is contraindicated in basilar/hemiplegic migraine due to a higher risk of stroke. Before treating headaches in individuals not previously diagnosed with migraine, and in individuals with migraine who present with atypical symptoms, exclude other potentially serious neurological conditions.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    cardiac accessory conduction pathway syndrome, coronary artery disease, coronary artery vasospasm, diabetes mellitus, family history of ischemic heart disease, geriatric, hypercholesterolemia, hypertension, males, obesity, peripheral vascular disease, postmenopausal females, stroke, tobacco smoking
    General Information
    Frovatriptan is contraindicated in individuals with ischemic coronary artery disease (CAD) (i.e., angina pectoris, history of myocardial infarction, documented silent ischemia), coronary artery vasospasm (including Prinzmetal angina), arrhythmias associated with cardiac accessory conduction pathway syndrome (including Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome), uncontrolled hypertension, peripheral vascular disease (including ischemic bowel disease), or a history of stroke (including transient ischemic attack). Perform a cardiovascular (CV) evaluation in triptan-naive individuals who have multiple CV risk factors (e.g., increased age including geriatric adults, diabetes mellitus, hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, tobacco smoking, obesity, strong family history of ischemic heart disease, postmenopausal females, males older than 40 years) before administering frovatriptan. For individuals with risk factors who have a negative CV evaluation, consider administering the first dose of frovatriptan in a medically-supervised setting and obtaining an ECG immediately after administration. Consider periodic CV evaluation in intermittent long-term users of frovatriptan who have CV risk factors. Before treating headaches in individuals not previously diagnosed with migraine, and in individuals with migraine who present with atypical symptoms, exclude other potentially serious neurological conditions; individuals with migraine may be at increased risk of certain cerebrovascular events (e.g., stroke, hemorrhage, transient ischemic attack). Significant blood pressure elevation has been reported on rare occasions in individuals with or without a history of hypertension receiving serotonin receptor agonists (triptans). Monitor blood pressure during frovatriptan treatment.
    Headline
    hepatic failure
    General Information
    Use frovatriptan with caution in individuals with severe hepatic impairment or hepatic failure. A greater than 2-fold increase in AUC is predicted in individuals with severe hepatic impairment.
    Headline
    activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery
    General Information
    Advise individuals against driving or operating machinery or participating in activities requiring coordination and concentration if they experience dizziness, drowsiness, or weakness after taking frovatriptan.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Available data on the use of frovatriptan during pregnancy are insufficient to evaluate a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse outcomes. Pregnant people with migraine may be at increased risk of preeclampsia. Based on animal data, frovatriptan may cause fetal harm. In animal studies where pregnant rats were exposed to frovatriptan throughout organogenesis at doses higher than those used clinically, increased embryofetal mortality and an increased incidence of fetal malformations were observed at the highest dose; decreased fetal body weights and increased incidences of fetal structural variations associated with growth impairment were observed at all doses. The lowest effect dose for embryofetal developmental toxicity in rats (100 mg/kg/day) is approximately 130 times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of 7.5 mg/day based on body surface area. When pregnant rabbits were given frovatriptan throughout organogenesis at doses higher than those used clinically, increased embryofetal mortality occurred at the mid and high doses. The no-effect dose for embryofetal developmental toxicity in rabbits (5 mg/kg/day) is approximately 13 times the MRHD based body surface area.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use frovatriptan with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of frovatriptan in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effect on milk production. Consider the developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding, the person's clinical need for frovatriptan, and any potential adverse effects on the breast-fed child from frovatriptan or the underlying maternal condition. In rats, oral dosing with frovatriptan resulted in concentrations of frovatriptan or its metabolites in milk up to 4 times higher than in plasma. Other agents with more data, such as sumatriptan, may be preferred.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Available data on the use of frovatriptan during pregnancy are insufficient to evaluate a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse outcomes. Pregnant people with migraine may be at increased risk of preeclampsia. Based on animal data, frovatriptan may cause fetal harm. In animal studies where pregnant rats were exposed to frovatriptan throughout organogenesis at doses higher than those used clinically, increased embryofetal mortality and an increased incidence of fetal malformations were observed at the highest dose; decreased fetal body weights and increased incidences of fetal structural variations associated with growth impairment were observed at all doses. The lowest effect dose for embryofetal developmental toxicity in rats (100 mg/kg/day) is approximately 130 times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of 7.5 mg/day based on body surface area. When pregnant rabbits were given frovatriptan throughout organogenesis at doses higher than those used clinically, increased embryofetal mortality occurred at the mid and high doses. The no-effect dose for embryofetal developmental toxicity in rabbits (5 mg/kg/day) is approximately 13 times the MRHD based body surface area.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use frovatriptan with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of frovatriptan in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effect on milk production. Consider the developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding, the person's clinical need for frovatriptan, and any potential adverse effects on the breast-fed child from frovatriptan or the underlying maternal condition. In rats, oral dosing with frovatriptan resulted in concentrations of frovatriptan or its metabolites in milk up to 4 times higher than in plasma. Other agents with more data, such as sumatriptan, may be preferred.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dihydrocodeine with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering hydrocodone with serotonin-recptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering oxycodone with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering alfentanil with frovatriptan. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Almotriptan: (Contraindicated) Almotriptan is contraindicated for use within 24 hours of treatment with frovatriptan due to the risk for additive vasospastic reactions. Additive serotonergic effects, including serotonin syndrome, may also occur.
Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and tricyclic antidepressant use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Amphetamine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and amphetamine; dextroamphetamine use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine Salts: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and amphetamine; dextroamphetamine use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and amphetamine; dextroamphetamine use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering oxycodone with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering benzhydrocodone with serotonin-recptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Major) Theoretically, concurrent use of methylene blue and serotonin-receptor agonists may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. Methylene blue is a thiazine dye that is also a potent, reversible inhibitor of the enzyme responsible for the catabolism of serotonin in the brain (MAO-A) and serotonin-receptor agonists increase central serotonin effects. Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported, primarily following administration of standard infusions of methylene blue (1 to 8 mg/kg) as a visualizing agent in parathyroid surgery, in patients receiving selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, serotonin/norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, or clomipramine. It is not known if patients receiving other serotonergic agents with intravenous methylene blue are at a comparable risk or if methylene blue administered by other routes (e.g., orally, local injection) or in doses less than 1 mg/kg IV can produce a similar outcome. Published interaction reports between intravenously administered methylene blue and serotonergic psychiatric agents have documented symptoms including lethargy, confusion, delirium, agitation, aggression, obtundation, myoclonus, expressive aphasia, hypertonia, pyrexia, elevated blood pressure, seizures, and/or coma. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of various symptoms such as hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, hyperhidrosis, incoordination, diarrhea, mental status changes (e.g., confusion, delirium, or coma), and in rare cases, death.
Benzphetamine: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as amphetamines and serotonin-receptor agonists. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release, as well as act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Bromocriptine: (Contraindicated) The use of ergot derivatives, such as bromocriptine, and serotonin-receptor agonists within 24 hours of each another is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Some ergot derivatives and serotonin-receptor antagonists have been associated with vasospasm and concomitant use may increase this risk.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Buprenorphine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering buprenorphine with serotonergic-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering buprenorphine with serotonergic-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
busPIRone: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant buspirone and serotonin-receptor agonist use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Cabergoline: (Major) When possible, avoid concomitant use of serotonin-receptor agonists (triptans) within 24 hours of cabergoline administration to minimize the risk for serious coronary ischemia. Ergot alkaloids have been reported to cause prolonged vasospastic reactions which may be additive with the effects of triptans. The risk for vasospastic adverse reactions may be less with cabergoline, a semisynthetic ergot alkaloid derivative, than with other ergot alkaloids as cabergoline is a relatively selective dopamine agonist. In select patients, the combination of cabergoline and "triptans" has been utilized in the management of some headache types, but more data are needed regarding safety and efficacy.
Capsaicin; Metaxalone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of serotonin-receptor agonists ("triptans") and metaxalone may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use is necessary.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering tramadol with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and tricyclic antidepressant use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering hydrocodone with serotonin-recptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Citalopram: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering frovatriptan with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin-receptor agonists and SSRIs. Some patients had used the combination previously without incident when serotonin syndrome occurred. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase of the SSRI or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing SSRI regimen. Discontinue the SSRI and frovatriptan and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and tricyclic antidepressant use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Cocaine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of cocaine with other drugs that have CNS serotonergic properties, such as serotonin-receptor agonists, could potentiate serotonin neurotransmission, and result in serotonergic side effects or rarely, serotonin syndrome. The actions of cocaine are presumed to include inhibition of presynaptic reuptake of serotonin. In most medical use cases, cocaine would be administered topically, and this interaction would not be of concern, as serotonin-agonists for migraine are used mostly "as needed". Illicit use of cocaine is of potential concern for interactions.
Codeine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Desipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and tricyclic antidepressant use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Minor) Retrospective analysis of pharmacokinetic data from females across trials indicated that the mean Cmax and AUC of frovatriptan are 30% higher in those subjects taking oral contraceptives (e.g., those containing ethinyl estradiol) compared to those not taking oral contraceptives. The clinical significance of the interaction has not been established. Hormone replacement therapy regimens (HRT) are not thought to interact, based on data with other 'triptans' with similar pharmacokinetic interactions with oral contraceptives.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Retrospective analysis of pharmacokinetic data from females across trials indicated that the mean Cmax and AUC of frovatriptan are 30% higher in those subjects taking oral contraceptives (e.g., those containing ethinyl estradiol) compared to those not taking oral contraceptives. The clinical significance of the interaction has not been established. Hormone replacement therapy regimens (HRT) are not thought to interact, based on data with other 'triptans' with similar pharmacokinetic interactions with oral contraceptives.
Desvenlafaxine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering desvenlafaxine with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as serotonin-receptor agonists (e.g., almotriptan, eletriptan, frovatriptan, naratriptan, rizatriptan, sumatriptan, zolmitriptan). Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin-receptor agonists and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. Some patients had used the combination previously without incident when serotonin syndrome occurred. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. Discontinue serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and amphetamine; dextroamphetamine use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Dextromethorphan; buPROPion: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Dihydroergotamine: (Contraindicated) The use of ergotamine and serotonin-receptor agonists within 24 hours of each another is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Both medications have been associated with vasospasm and concomitant use may increase this risk.
Doxepin: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and tricyclic antidepressant use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Retrospective analysis of pharmacokinetic data from females across trials indicated that the mean Cmax and AUC of frovatriptan are 30% higher in those subjects taking oral contraceptives (e.g., those containing ethinyl estradiol) compared to those not taking oral contraceptives. The clinical significance of the interaction has not been established. Hormone replacement therapy regimens (HRT) are not thought to interact, based on data with other 'triptans' with similar pharmacokinetic interactions with oral contraceptives.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Minor) Retrospective analysis of pharmacokinetic data from females across trials indicated that the mean Cmax and AUC of frovatriptan are 30% higher in those subjects taking oral contraceptives (e.g., those containing ethinyl estradiol) compared to those not taking oral contraceptives. The clinical significance of the interaction has not been established. Hormone replacement therapy regimens (HRT) are not thought to interact, based on data with other 'triptans' with similar pharmacokinetic interactions with oral contraceptives.
Droxidopa: (Major) Coadministration of droxidopa with other agents that increase blood pressure, such as serotonin-receptor agonists, would be expected to increase the risk for supine hypertension. Monitor supine blood pressure. Reduce or discontinue droxidopa if supine hypertension persists. If supine hypertension is not well-managed, droxidopa may increase the risk of cardiovascular events.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant duloxetine and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Eletriptan: (Contraindicated) Eletriptan is contraindicated for use within 24 hours of treatment with frovatriptan due to the risk for additive vasospastic reactions. Additive serotonergic effects, including serotonin syndrome, may also occur.
Ergoloid Mesylates: (Contraindicated) The use of ergot alkaloids, such as ergoloid mesylates, and serotonin-receptor agonists within 24 hours of each another is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Both medications have been associated with vasospasm and concomitant use may increase this risk.
Ergotamine: (Contraindicated) The use of ergotamine and serotonin-receptor agonists within 24 hours of each another is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Both medications have been associated with vasospasm and concomitant use may increase this risk.
Ergotamine; Caffeine: (Contraindicated) The use of ergotamine and serotonin-receptor agonists within 24 hours of each another is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Both medications have been associated with vasospasm and concomitant use may increase this risk.
Escitalopram: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering frovatriptan with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin-receptor agonists and SSRIs. Some patients had used the combination previously without incident when serotonin syndrome occurred. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase of the SSRI or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing SSRI regimen. Discontinue the SSRI and frovatriptan and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Minor) Retrospective analysis of pharmacokinetic data from females across trials indicated that the mean Cmax and AUC of frovatriptan are 30% higher in those subjects taking oral contraceptives (e.g., those containing ethinyl estradiol) compared to those not taking oral contraceptives. The clinical significance of the interaction has not been established. Hormone replacement therapy regimens (HRT) are not thought to interact, based on data with other 'triptans' with similar pharmacokinetic interactions with oral contraceptives.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Minor) Retrospective analysis of pharmacokinetic data from females across trials indicated that the mean Cmax and AUC of frovatriptan are 30% higher in those subjects taking oral contraceptives (e.g., those containing ethinyl estradiol) compared to those not taking oral contraceptives. The clinical significance of the interaction has not been established. Hormone replacement therapy regimens (HRT) are not thought to interact, based on data with other 'triptans' with similar pharmacokinetic interactions with oral contraceptives.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Minor) Retrospective analysis of pharmacokinetic data from females across trials indicated that the mean Cmax and AUC of frovatriptan are 30% higher in those subjects taking oral contraceptives (e.g., those containing ethinyl estradiol) compared to those not taking oral contraceptives. The clinical significance of the interaction has not been established. Hormone replacement therapy regimens (HRT) are not thought to interact, based on data with other 'triptans' with similar pharmacokinetic interactions with oral contraceptives.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Retrospective analysis of pharmacokinetic data from females across trials indicated that the mean Cmax and AUC of frovatriptan are 30% higher in those subjects taking oral contraceptives (e.g., those containing ethinyl estradiol) compared to those not taking oral contraceptives. The clinical significance of the interaction has not been established. Hormone replacement therapy regimens (HRT) are not thought to interact, based on data with other 'triptans' with similar pharmacokinetic interactions with oral contraceptives.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Retrospective analysis of pharmacokinetic data from females across trials indicated that the mean Cmax and AUC of frovatriptan are 30% higher in those subjects taking oral contraceptives (e.g., those containing ethinyl estradiol) compared to those not taking oral contraceptives. The clinical significance of the interaction has not been established. Hormone replacement therapy regimens (HRT) are not thought to interact, based on data with other 'triptans' with similar pharmacokinetic interactions with oral contraceptives.
Fenfluramine: (Moderate) Use fenfluramine and serotonin receptor agonists with caution due to an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering frovatriptan with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin-receptor agonists and SSRIs. Some patients had used the combination previously without incident when serotonin syndrome occurred. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase of the SSRI or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing SSRI regimen. Discontinue the SSRI and frovatriptan and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
fluvoxaMINE: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering frovatriptan with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin-receptor agonists and SSRIs. Some patients had used the combination previously without incident when serotonin syndrome occurred. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase of the SSRI or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing SSRI regimen. Discontinue the SSRI and frovatriptan and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Gepirone: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and serotonin-receptor agonists is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering hydrocodone with serotonin-recptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering hydrocodone with serotonin-recptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering hydrocodone with serotonin-recptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
HYDROmorphone: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering hydromorphone with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Major) Theoretically, concurrent use of methylene blue and serotonin-receptor agonists may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. Methylene blue is a thiazine dye that is also a potent, reversible inhibitor of the enzyme responsible for the catabolism of serotonin in the brain (MAO-A) and serotonin-receptor agonists increase central serotonin effects. Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported, primarily following administration of standard infusions of methylene blue (1 to 8 mg/kg) as a visualizing agent in parathyroid surgery, in patients receiving selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, serotonin/norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, or clomipramine. It is not known if patients receiving other serotonergic agents with intravenous methylene blue are at a comparable risk or if methylene blue administered by other routes (e.g., orally, local injection) or in doses less than 1 mg/kg IV can produce a similar outcome. Published interaction reports between intravenously administered methylene blue and serotonergic psychiatric agents have documented symptoms including lethargy, confusion, delirium, agitation, aggression, obtundation, myoclonus, expressive aphasia, hypertonia, pyrexia, elevated blood pressure, seizures, and/or coma. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of various symptoms such as hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, hyperhidrosis, incoordination, diarrhea, mental status changes (e.g., confusion, delirium, or coma), and in rare cases, death.
Imipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and tricyclic antidepressant use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Isocarboxazid: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering frovatriptan with isocarboxazid. Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin-receptor agonists and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue frovatriptan and isocarboxazid and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Lasmiditan: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of lasmiditan and serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Levomilnacipran: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering levomilnacipran with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as serotonin-receptor agonists (e.g., almotriptan, eletriptan, frovatriptan, naratriptan, rizatriptan, sumatriptan, zolmitriptan). Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin-receptor agonists and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. Some patients had used the combination previously without incident when serotonin syndrome occurred. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. Discontinue serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Retrospective analysis of pharmacokinetic data from females across trials indicated that the mean Cmax and AUC of frovatriptan are 30% higher in those subjects taking oral contraceptives (e.g., those containing ethinyl estradiol) compared to those not taking oral contraceptives. The clinical significance of the interaction has not been established. Hormone replacement therapy regimens (HRT) are not thought to interact, based on data with other 'triptans' with similar pharmacokinetic interactions with oral contraceptives.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Minor) Retrospective analysis of pharmacokinetic data from females across trials indicated that the mean Cmax and AUC of frovatriptan are 30% higher in those subjects taking oral contraceptives (e.g., those containing ethinyl estradiol) compared to those not taking oral contraceptives. The clinical significance of the interaction has not been established. Hormone replacement therapy regimens (HRT) are not thought to interact, based on data with other 'triptans' with similar pharmacokinetic interactions with oral contraceptives.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Minor) Retrospective analysis of pharmacokinetic data from females across trials indicated that the mean Cmax and AUC of frovatriptan are 30% higher in those subjects taking oral contraceptives (e.g., those containing ethinyl estradiol) compared to those not taking oral contraceptives. The clinical significance of the interaction has not been established. Hormone replacement therapy regimens (HRT) are not thought to interact, based on data with other 'triptans' with similar pharmacokinetic interactions with oral contraceptives.
Levorphanol: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering levorphanol with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Linezolid: (Major) Linezolid is an antibiotic that is also a reversible, non-selective inhibitor of MAO and should not be administered with serotonin-receptor agonists. The monoamine oxidase type A enzyme metabolizes serotonin. Non-selective MAO inhibitors increase the plasma concentrations of these drugs and some of their active metabolites, thus increasing levels of serotonin. This interaction could lead to serotonin syndrome. The manufacturers of serotonin agonists contraindicate the administration of their drugs to patients receiving non-selective MAO inhibitors like linezolid or within 2 weeks of discontinuation of a MAO inhibitor.
Lisdexamfetamine: (Major) Initiate with lower doses and monitor patients for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation or dosage increase, during concomitant lisdexamfetamine and serotonin-receptor agonist use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk of serotonin syndrome.
Lithium: (Major) If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome and inform patients of the increased risk. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be implemented. There is an increased risk of serotonin syndrome during concurrent use of drugs with central serotonergic properties such as lithium and serotonin-receptor agonists. Signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome include autonomic instability (e.g., labile blood pressure, tachycardia, diaphoresis, dizziness, hyperthermia), mental status changes (e.g., delirium, confusion, coma), neuromuscular symptoms (e.g., tremor, rigidity, myoclonus, hyperreflexia, incoordination), gastrointestinal effects (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea), seizures, and in rare cases, death.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Contraindicated) Rizatriptan is contraindicated for use within 24 hours of treatment with frovatriptan due to the risk for additive vasospastic reactions. Additive serotonergic effects, including serotonin syndrome, may also occur.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering meperidine with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Metaxalone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of serotonin-receptor agonists ("triptans") and metaxalone may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use is necessary.
Methadone: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering methadone with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Methamphetamine: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as methamphetamine and serotonin-receptor agonists. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release, as well as act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Methenamine; Sodium Acid Phosphate; Methylene Blue; Hyoscyamine: (Major) Theoretically, concurrent use of methylene blue and serotonin-receptor agonists may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. Methylene blue is a thiazine dye that is also a potent, reversible inhibitor of the enzyme responsible for the catabolism of serotonin in the brain (MAO-A) and serotonin-receptor agonists increase central serotonin effects. Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported, primarily following administration of standard infusions of methylene blue (1 to 8 mg/kg) as a visualizing agent in parathyroid surgery, in patients receiving selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, serotonin/norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, or clomipramine. It is not known if patients receiving other serotonergic agents with intravenous methylene blue are at a comparable risk or if methylene blue administered by other routes (e.g., orally, local injection) or in doses less than 1 mg/kg IV can produce a similar outcome. Published interaction reports between intravenously administered methylene blue and serotonergic psychiatric agents have documented symptoms including lethargy, confusion, delirium, agitation, aggression, obtundation, myoclonus, expressive aphasia, hypertonia, pyrexia, elevated blood pressure, seizures, and/or coma. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of various symptoms such as hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, hyperhidrosis, incoordination, diarrhea, mental status changes (e.g., confusion, delirium, or coma), and in rare cases, death.
Methylene Blue: (Major) Theoretically, concurrent use of methylene blue and serotonin-receptor agonists may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. Methylene blue is a thiazine dye that is also a potent, reversible inhibitor of the enzyme responsible for the catabolism of serotonin in the brain (MAO-A) and serotonin-receptor agonists increase central serotonin effects. Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported, primarily following administration of standard infusions of methylene blue (1 to 8 mg/kg) as a visualizing agent in parathyroid surgery, in patients receiving selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, serotonin/norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, or clomipramine. It is not known if patients receiving other serotonergic agents with intravenous methylene blue are at a comparable risk or if methylene blue administered by other routes (e.g., orally, local injection) or in doses less than 1 mg/kg IV can produce a similar outcome. Published interaction reports between intravenously administered methylene blue and serotonergic psychiatric agents have documented symptoms including lethargy, confusion, delirium, agitation, aggression, obtundation, myoclonus, expressive aphasia, hypertonia, pyrexia, elevated blood pressure, seizures, and/or coma. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of various symptoms such as hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, hyperhidrosis, incoordination, diarrhea, mental status changes (e.g., confusion, delirium, or coma), and in rare cases, death.
Methylergonovine: (Contraindicated) The use of ergot alkaloids, such as methylergonovine, and serotonin-receptor agonists within 24 hours of each another is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Both medications have been associated with vasospasm and concomitant use may increase this risk.
Milnacipran: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering milnacipran with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as serotonin-receptor agonists (e.g., almotriptan, eletriptan, frovatriptan, naratriptan, rizatriptan, sumatriptan, zolmitriptan). Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin-receptor agonists and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. Some patients had used the combination previously without incident when serotonin syndrome occurred. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. Discontinue serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Mirtazapine: (Major) The coadministration of serotonergic antidepressants with serotonin-agonists has sometimes resulted in serotonin syndrome. Careful observation of the patient is advised, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. Serotonin syndrome symptoms may include mental status changes (e.g., agitation, hallucinations, and coma), autonomic instability (e.g., tachycardia, labile blood pressure, and hyperthermia), neuromuscular aberrations (e.g., hyperreflexia, incoordination) and/or gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea). Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome, which includes hyperthermia, muscle rigidity, autonomic instability with possible rapid fluctuation of vital signs, and mental status changes. Discontinue the serotonergic agents immediately if serotonin syndrome reactions occur and initiate supportive symptomatic treatment.
Morphine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering morphine with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Nalbuphine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering nalbuphine with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Naratriptan: (Contraindicated) Naratriptan is contraindicated for use within 24 hours of treatment with frovatriptan due to the risk for additive vasospastic reactions. Additive serotonergic effects, including serotonin syndrome, may also occur.
Nefazodone: (Major) Medications that augment release, decrease the metabolism of, or decrease the reuptake of serotonin, like the serotonin-receptor agonists, may interact with nefazodone by causing serotonin-related side effects, including serotonin syndrome. Whenever possible, these drug combinations should be avoided. If serotonin-syndrome is suspected, offending agents should be discontinued.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Minor) Retrospective analysis of pharmacokinetic data from females across trials indicated that the mean Cmax and AUC of frovatriptan are 30% higher in those subjects taking oral contraceptives (e.g., those containing ethinyl estradiol) compared to those not taking oral contraceptives. The clinical significance of the interaction has not been established. Hormone replacement therapy regimens (HRT) are not thought to interact, based on data with other 'triptans' with similar pharmacokinetic interactions with oral contraceptives.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Retrospective analysis of pharmacokinetic data from females across trials indicated that the mean Cmax and AUC of frovatriptan are 30% higher in those subjects taking oral contraceptives (e.g., those containing ethinyl estradiol) compared to those not taking oral contraceptives. The clinical significance of the interaction has not been established. Hormone replacement therapy regimens (HRT) are not thought to interact, based on data with other 'triptans' with similar pharmacokinetic interactions with oral contraceptives.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Minor) Retrospective analysis of pharmacokinetic data from females across trials indicated that the mean Cmax and AUC of frovatriptan are 30% higher in those subjects taking oral contraceptives (e.g., those containing ethinyl estradiol) compared to those not taking oral contraceptives. The clinical significance of the interaction has not been established. Hormone replacement therapy regimens (HRT) are not thought to interact, based on data with other 'triptans' with similar pharmacokinetic interactions with oral contraceptives.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Retrospective analysis of pharmacokinetic data from females across trials indicated that the mean Cmax and AUC of frovatriptan are 30% higher in those subjects taking oral contraceptives (e.g., those containing ethinyl estradiol) compared to those not taking oral contraceptives. The clinical significance of the interaction has not been established. Hormone replacement therapy regimens (HRT) are not thought to interact, based on data with other 'triptans' with similar pharmacokinetic interactions with oral contraceptives.
Nortriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and tricyclic antidepressant use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering frovatriptan with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin-receptor agonists and SSRIs. Some patients had used the combination previously without incident when serotonin syndrome occurred. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase of the SSRI or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing SSRI regimen. Discontinue the SSRI and frovatriptan and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Oliceridine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of oliceridine and serotonin-receptor agonists is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering oxycodone with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
oxyMORphone: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering oxymorphone with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
PARoxetine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering frovatriptan with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin-receptor agonists and SSRIs. Some patients had used the combination previously without incident when serotonin syndrome occurred. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase of the SSRI or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing SSRI regimen. Discontinue the SSRI and frovatriptan and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and tricyclic antidepressant use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Phenelzine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering frovatriptan with phenelzine. Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin-receptor agonists and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue frovatriptan and phenelzine and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Protriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and tricyclic antidepressant use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Rasagiline: (Minor) Use together with caution. Serotonin syndrome has been reported during administration of serotonin-receptor agonists ("triptans") and non-selective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). Unlike some serotonin-receptor agonists, frovatriptan is not a substrate for MAO; therefore, its metabolism is not affected by MAOIs. Therefore, MAOI-based interactions appear to be less likely with frovatriptan. Since rasagiline selectively inhibits MAO-B at recommended doses, no interaction with frovatriptan would be expected with normal prescription use. However, there is a decline in MAO-B selectivity with increasing rasagiline doses. Monitor for potential serotonin-related side effects. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue all serotonergic agents and institute appropriate treatment.
Remifentanil: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering remifentanil with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Rizatriptan: (Contraindicated) Rizatriptan is contraindicated for use within 24 hours of treatment with frovatriptan due to the risk for additive vasospastic reactions. Additive serotonergic effects, including serotonin syndrome, may also occur.
Safinamide: (Moderate) Safinamide and serotonin-receptor agonists, also known as triptans, should be used together with caution. Serotonin syndrome has been reported during administration of serotonin-receptor agonists and non-selective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). Since safinamide selectively inhibits MAO-B at recommended doses, no interaction with serotonin-receptor agonists would be expected with normal prescription use. However, monitoring for serotonin-related side effects is advisable since the potential for serotonin syndrome exists. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue all serotonergic agents and institute appropriate treatment.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Retrospective analysis of pharmacokinetic data from females across trials indicated that the mean Cmax and AUC of frovatriptan are 30% higher in those subjects taking oral contraceptives (e.g., those containing ethinyl estradiol) compared to those not taking oral contraceptives. The clinical significance of the interaction has not been established. Hormone replacement therapy regimens (HRT) are not thought to interact, based on data with other 'triptans' with similar pharmacokinetic interactions with oral contraceptives.
Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering frovatriptan with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin-receptor agonists and SSRIs. Some patients had used the combination previously without incident when serotonin syndrome occurred. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase of the SSRI or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing SSRI regimen. Discontinue the SSRI and frovatriptan and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Selegiline: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering frovatriptan with transdermal selegiline, orally disintegrating selegiline tablets, and high doses of oral selegiline capsules and tablets. Since selegiline oral tablets and capsules selectively inhibit MAO-B at recommended doses, no interaction with frovatriptan would be expected with normal prescription use. However, MAO-B selectivity decreases with increasing doses, therefore, an interaction may occur with high dose treatment. Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin-receptor agonists and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue frovatriptan and selegiline and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Sertraline: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering frovatriptan with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin-receptor agonists and SSRIs. Some patients had used the combination previously without incident when serotonin syndrome occurred. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase of the SSRI or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing SSRI regimen. Discontinue the SSRI and frovatriptan and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Moderate) Although unlikely to occur during monotherapy with serotonin-receptor agonists ("triptans"), coadministration with serotonergic agents like St. John's Wort may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Inform the patient of the increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering sufentanil with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
SUMAtriptan: (Contraindicated) Sumatriptan is contraindicated for use within 24 hours of treatment with frovatriptan due to the risk for additive vasospastic reactions. Additive serotonergic effects, including serotonin syndrome, may also occur.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Contraindicated) Sumatriptan is contraindicated for use within 24 hours of treatment with frovatriptan due to the risk for additive vasospastic reactions. Additive serotonergic effects, including serotonin syndrome, may also occur.
Tapentadol: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering tapentadol with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
traMADol: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering tramadol with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering tramadol with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Tranylcypromine: (Contraindicated) Due to the risk of serotonin syndrome, tranylcypromine is contraindicated for use with frovatriptan. Tranylcypromine should not be used within 4 to 5 half-lives of discontinuing treatment with frovatriptan.
traZODone: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant trazodone and serotonin-receptor agonist use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and tricyclic antidepressant use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Trimipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and tricyclic antidepressant use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Tryptophan, 5-Hydroxytryptophan: (Contraindicated) Combining medications that potentiate serotonin neurotransmission, such as serotonin-receptor agonists and tryptophan, could result in serotonin syndrome. Serotonin syndrome, while uncommon, can be serious and consists of symptoms such as mental status changes, diaphoresis, tremor, myoclonus, hyperreflexia, and fever.
Venlafaxine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant venlafaxine and serotonin-receptor agonist use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Vilazodone: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering vilazodone with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as serotonin-receptor agonists (e.g., almotriptan, eletriptan, frovatriptan, naratriptan, rizatriptan, sumatriptan, zolmitriptan). Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) or selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) with serotonin-receptor agonists. Of the 27 cases reviewed by the FDA, 2 were considered life-threatening and 13 required hospitalization. Some patients had used the combination previously without incident. Eight of 27 cases involved a recent dose increase or addition of another serotonergic drug to the regimen, with a median onset of 1 day (range: 10 minutes to 6 days). It is thought that the interaction between SNRIs or SSRIs and serotonin-receptor agonists is the result of increased serotonergic activity by each of the drug classes. Serotonin syndrome consists of symptoms such as mental status changes (e.g., agitation, confusion, hallucinations), diaphoresis, hyperreflexia, hypertension, diarrhea, fever, tremor, and, in some instances, respiratory failure. At least 6 patients taking an SSRI antidepressant are known to have received sumatriptan for migraine where no apparent adverse effects were seen. In another case report, the addition of fluoxetine lead to loss of migraine control with sumatriptan. Patients receiving vilazodone and a serotonin-receptor agonist should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and during dosage increases. Vilazodone and the serotonin-receptor agonist should be discontinued if serotonin syndrome occurs and supportive symptomatic treatment should be initiated.
Vortioxetine: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering vortioxetine with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as serotonin-receptor agonists (e.g., almotriptan, eletriptan, frovatriptan, naratriptan, rizatriptan, sumatriptan, zolmitriptan). Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonergic antidepressants with the serotonin-receptor agonists. Some patients had used the combination previously without incident when serotonin syndrome occurred. Some cases have involved hospitalization. Serotonin syndrome consists of symptoms such as mental status changes (e.g., agitation, confusion, hallucinations), diaphoresis, hyperreflexia, hypertension, diarrhea, fever, tremor, and, in some instances, respiratory failure. Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome. Careful monitoring for serotonin syndrome is recommended if combination therapy with is required. Risk factors can include a recent dose increase of the sertonergic antidepressant or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing antidepressant regimen.
ZOLMitriptan: (Contraindicated) Zolmitriptan is contraindicated for use within 24 hours of treatment with frovatriptan due to the risk for additive vasospastic reactions. Additive serotonergic effects, including serotonin syndrome, may also occur.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  During clinical trials frovatriptan was well tolerated, with most adverse reactions being mild to moderate. The overall percentage of patients experiencing adverse effects was similar to that of placebo. The most common adverse effects associated with frovatriptan (occurring in >= 2% of patients) included dizziness, paresthesias, headache, dry mouth (xerostomia), fatigue, flushing, dysesthesia (specifically, hot or cold sensation), and chest pain. Patients also reported less common adverse reactions (occurring in >= 1% of patients), including abdominal pain, anxiety, diarrhea, hypoesthesia, increased sweating, insomnia, rhinitis, sinusitis, skeletal pain, tinnitus, and nausea/vomiting. Vasospastic effects associated with other serotonin agonists (i.e., sumatriptan, naratriptan) include peripheral vascular ischemia and bowel ischemia. Abdominal pain, bloody diarrhea, and cramping have been associated with ischemic colitis following sumatriptan with a median time to onset of 48 hours. Pharmacologically, it appears plausible that bowel ischemia is a class effect of serotonin (5HT1) receptor agonists.
 
5-HT1 agonists have been associated with serious cardiac problems including coronary vasospasm, transient myocardia ischemia, myocardial infarction, ventricular tachycardia, and ventricular fibrillation. Chest pressure syndrome or chest pain (unspecified) has also been reported during 5-HT1 agonist therapy. In frovatriptan trials, cardiac problems were relatively uncommon, although palpitations were reported in at least 1% of patients, tachycardia was reported in > 0.1% of patients, and abnormal ECG changes were reported in 0.1 to 1% of all patients. Although cardiac events are rare, patients with cardiac disease and other risk factors should not use frovatriptan (see Contraindications).
 
The incidence of blood pressure elevation during clinical trials was rare. Although significant blood pressure elevations are uncommon, frovatriptan should not be used in patients with uncontrolled hypertension. Monitor blood pressure in patients with controlled hypertension as needed.
 
Frovatriptan was shown to bind to the melanin of the eye in rats, suggesting possible accumulation and ocular toxicity over time. Although visual impairment (described as abnormal vision) was reported as a side effect of frovatriptan use, no cases of frovatriptan accumulation or ocular toxicity have been reported in humans. However, there is a possibility of long-term ophthalmologic effects and visual impairment associated with frovatriptan use.
 
Seizures have been reported during post-marketing use of frovatriptan. The frequency is unknown and causality to the drug has not been established.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    abdominal pain, anorexia, bowel ischemia, cheilitis, colitis, constipation, dental pain, diarrhea, dysgeusia, dyspepsia, dysphagia, eructation, flatulence, gastroesophageal reflux, hiccups, hypersalivation, nausea, peptic ulcer, stomatitis, vomiting, xerostomia
    General Information
    During clinical trials of frovatriptan in the treatment of acute migraines, the following gastrointestinal (GI) effects occurred in at least 2% of patients receiving frovatriptan and with an incidence greater than placebo: xerostomia (3% vs 1%) and dyspepsia (2% vs 1%). During other clinical trial evaluation, nausea/vomiting, abdominal pain, and diarrhea were reported in at least 1% of patients. Infrequently reported GI effects (0.1—1%) included dysphagia, flatulence, constipation, anorexia, esophageal spasm, hypersalivation, and dysgeusia. Rare effects (< 0.1%) included change in bowel habits, cheilitis, eructation, gastroesophageal reflux, hiccups, peptic ulcer, salivary gland pain, stomatitis, and dental pain (toothache). Serotonin receptor agonists may cause vasospastic reactions including gastrointestinal vascular ischemia. Cramping, bowel ischemia, and ischemic colitis have been reported following administration of other serotonin receptor agonists. Patients who experience signs or symptoms suggestive of ischemic bowel syndrome (e.g., cramping, abdominal pain, bloody diarrhea) should be further evaluated. Frovatriptan is contraindicated in patients with known ischemic bowel disease.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      bowel ischemia
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      colitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      cheilitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dental pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspepsia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dysphagia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      eructation
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      flatulence
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      gastroesophageal reflux
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hiccups
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypersalivation
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      peptic ulcer
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      stomatitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dysgeusia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    angina, arrhythmia exacerbation, bradycardia, chest pain (unspecified), chest pressure syndrome, coronary vasospasm, flushing, hypertensive crisis, myocardial infarction, palpitations, sinus tachycardia, ventricular fibrillation, ventricular tachycardia
    General Information
    Serotonin receptor agonists, such as frovatriptan, may cause coronary vasospasm or ischemia. Life-threatening arrhythmia exacerbation, including ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation leading to death, have been reported within a few hours following the administration of 5-HT1 agonists. Discontinue frovatriptan if these disturbances occur. Other serious cardiac events associated with administration of serotonin receptor agonists have included coronary vasospasm, abdominal aortic aneurysm, angina, transient myocardial ischemia, myocardial infarction, cardiac arrest, and death. These events are extremely rare and have been reported primarily in patients with risk factors predictive of coronary artery disease. However, it should be noted that adverse cardiovascular events have also occurred in patients with no cardiac history and with documented absence of coronary artery disease. During clinical trial evaluation of frovatriptan, the following cardiac or vascular effects occurred in at least 2% of patients receiving frovatriptan and more frequently than placebo: chest pain (unspecified) (2% vs 1%) and vasodilation/flushing (4% vs 2%). Other adverse cardiac effects included palpitations (>= 1%), sinus tachycardia (0.1—1%), abnormal ECG (0.1—1%), and bradycardia (< 0.1%). Statistically significant increases in systolic and diastolic blood pressure occurred after single doses of 80 mg frovatriptan and above; however, these increases were transient, resolved spontaneously, and were not clinically significant. Considerable increases in blood pressure, including hypertensive crisis with acute impairment of organ systems, have occurred with other 5-HT1 agonists in patients with and without a history of hypertension. Therefore, frovatriptan is contraindicated in patients with uncontrolled hypertension. Chest pain and a chest pressure syndrome, which includes sensations of chest pain, tightness and or/heaviness and jaw pain and tightness and regional pain and pressure have been reported after administration of serotonin receptor agonists, including frovatriptan. Frovatriptan is contraindicated in patients with ischemic heart disease or other significant cardiovascular disease.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      chest pain (unspecified)
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      chest pressure syndrome
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      coronary vasospasm
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      myocardial infarction
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      palpitations
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      ventricular tachycardia
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      angina
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      bradycardia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      sinus tachycardia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      ventricular fibrillation
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      flushing
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypertensive crisis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      arrhythmia exacerbation
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    agitation, amnesia, ataxia, confusion, depression, dizziness, dysarthria, emotional lability, euphoria, fatigue, headache, hyperthermia, hypertonia, hypotonia, insomnia, medication overuse headache, migraine, seizures, serotonin syndrome, syncope, tremor, vertigo, withdrawal
    General Information
    During clinical trials of frovatriptan in the treatment of acute migraines, the following centrally-mediated effects occurred in at least 2% of patients receiving frovatriptan and with an incidence greater than placebo: dizziness (8% vs. 5%), headache (4% vs. 3%), and fatigue (5% vs. 2%). During other clinical trial evaluation, insomnia and anxiety were reported in at least 1% of patients. CNS effects reported infrequently (0.1% to 1%) included tremor, aggravated migraine, involuntary muscle contractions, vertigo, ataxia, abnormal gait, dysarthria, confusion, nervousness, agitation, euphoria, impaired concentration, depression, emotional lability, amnesia, abnormal thinking, and depersonalization. Rare effects (less than 0.1%) included syncope, hypertonia, hypotonia, abnormal reflexes, tongue paralysis, aggravated depression, abnormal dreams, and personality disorder. Seizures have been reported during postmarketing use of frovatriptan. Overuse of drugs for treating acute headaches, including triptans, may lead to medication overuse headache. Patients may experience migraine-like daily headaches or a significant increase in migraine attack frequency. Discontinuation of the overused drug and treatment of withdrawal symptoms (e.g., transient worsening of headache) may be necessary. Advise patients about the risks of medication overuse (e.g., use of frovatriptan or any combination of therapy for at least 10 days/month) and encourage them to keep a written record of headache frequency and drug use. Serotonin syndrome may occur with serotonin receptor agonists, such as frovatriptan, particularly during concurrent use of serotonergic agents such as SSRIs or SNRIs. Serotonin syndrome consists of symptoms such as mental status changes (e.g., agitation, confusion), diaphoresis, hyperreflexia, elevated blood pressure, hyperthermia, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      seizures
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      agitation
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      amnesia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      ataxia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      confusion
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      depression
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dysarthria
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      emotional lability
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      euphoria
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypertonia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypotonia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      migraine
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      tremor
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vertigo
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      syncope
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      serotonin syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperthermia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      withdrawal
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      medication overuse headache
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    intracranial bleeding, stroke
    General Information
    Treatment with some serotonin receptor agonists has been associated with cerebral vasospasm resulting in intracranial bleeding, subarachnoid hemorrhage, stroke, other cerebrovascular events, and fatalities. In several cases, it appears that the cerebrovascular incident was the primary event and the 5-HT1 agonist was given with the incorrect assumption that these symptoms were due to a migraine when they were not. Frovatriptan is contraindicated in patients with cerebrovascular syndromes including stroke or transient ischemic attacks.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      stroke
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      intracranial bleeding
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    dysesthesia, hyperesthesia, hypoesthesia, paresthesias
    General Information
    During clinical trials of frovatriptan in the treatment of migraines, the following atypical sensations occurred in at least 2% of patients receiving frovatriptan and with an incidence greater than placebo: paresthesias (4% vs 2%) and hot or cold sensations (3% vs 2%). During other clinical trial evaluations, dysesthesia (>= 1%), hypoesthesia (>= 1%), and hyperesthesia (0.1—1%) were reported. Atypical sensations observed during use of other serotonin receptor agonists include tingling, warm/hot sensation, burning sensation, feeling of heaviness, pressure sensation, feeling of tightness, numbness, prickling sensations, stinging sensations, sensation of lightness, and tight feeling in head.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperesthesia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dysesthesia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      hypoesthesia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      paresthesias
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    conjunctivitis, ocular pain, visual impairment
    General Information
    During clinical trial evaluation of frovatriptan, abnormal vision was reported in at least 1% of patients. Infrequently reported ophthalmic effects (0.1—1%) included ocular pain, conjunctivitis, and abnormal lacrimation. Very rare reports of transient and permanent blindness and significant partial vision loss have been reported with the use of some serotonin receptor agonists. Visual disorders may also be part of a migraine attack; however, changes in vision occurring during treatment with frovatriptan should be thoroughly evaluated. Frovatriptan was shown to bind to the melanin of the eye in rats, suggesting possible accumulation and ocular toxicity over time. Although visual impairment (described as abnormal vision) was reported as a side effect of frovatriptan use, no cases of frovatriptan accumulation or ocular toxicity have been reported in humans. However, there is a possibility of long-term ophthalmologic effects and visual impairment associated with frovatriptan use.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      visual impairment
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      conjunctivitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      ocular pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    arthralgia, back pain, muscle cramps, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, myasthenia, peripheral vasoconstriction
    General Information
    During clinical trials of frovatriptan in the treatment of acute migraines, musculoskeletal pain occurred in more patients receiving frovatriptan than placebo (3% vs 2%). During other clinical trial evaluation, unspecified pain was reported in at least 1% of patients. Infrequently reported musculoskeletal effects or pain symptoms (0.1—1%) included myalgia, back pain, arthralgia, arthrosis, muscle cramps, and myasthenia. Leg pain was reported rarely (< 0.1%). Serotonin receptor agonists may cause peripheral vasospastic reactions. Patients who experience signs or symptoms suggestive of peripheral vasoconstriction or decreased arterial flow, such as peripheral coldness or Raynaud’s syndrome, should be further evaluated. Frovatriptan is contraindicated in patients with peripheral vascular disease.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      back pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      muscle cramps
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      musculoskeletal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      myalgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      myasthenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral vasoconstriction
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    bullous rash, hot flashes, hyperhidrosis, pruritus
    General Information
    During clinical trial evaluation of frovatriptan, hyperhidrosis was reported in at least 1% of patients. Infrequently reported dermatologic effects (0.1—1%) included pruritus, bullous rash/eruption, and flushing or hot flashes.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hot flashes
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperhidrosis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      bullous rash
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    increased urinary frequency, nocturia, polyuria
    General Information
    During clinical trial evaluation of frovatriptan, infrequently reported (0.1—1%) urinary system disorders included increased urinary frequency and polyuria. Rarely reported effects (< 0.1%) included nocturia, renal pain, and abnormal urine (unspecified).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      increased urinary frequency
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nocturia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      polyuria
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    dehydration, hypocalcemia, hypoglycemia, polydipsia
    General Information
    During clinical trial evaluation of frovatriptan, infrequently reported (0.1—1%) metabolic and nutritional disorders included thirst (polydipsia) and dehydration. Rarely reported effects (< 0.1%) included hypocalcemia and hypoglycemia.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dehydration
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypocalcemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypoglycemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      polydipsia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    dyspnea, hyperventilation, laryngitis, pharyngitis, rhinitis, sinusitis
    General Information
    During clinical trial evaluation of frovatriptan, respiratory effects including sinusitis and rhinitis were reported in at least 1% of patients. Infrequently reported respiratory effects (0.1—1%) included pharyngitis, dyspnea, hyperventilation, and laryngitis.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperventilation
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      laryngitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pharyngitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      rhinitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      sinusitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
    Headline
    epistaxis, purpura
    General Information
    During clinical trial evaluation of frovatriptan, epistaxis was reported infrequently (0.1—1%). Rarely reported hematologic effects (< 0.1%) included purpura.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      epistaxis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      purpura
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hyperacusis, otalgia, tinnitus
    General Information
    During clinical trial evaluation of frovatriptan, tinnitus was reported in at least 1% of patients. Infrequently reported otic effects (0.1—1%) included otalgia and hyperacusis.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperacusis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      otalgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      tinnitus
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
    Headline
    asthenia, edema, fever, malaise
    General Information
    During clinical trial evaluation of frovatriptan, infrequently reported (0.1—1%) general effects included asthenia, rigors, fever, and malaise. Rarely reported general effects (< 0.1%) included feeling of relaxation and mouth edema.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      malaise
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema
    General Information
    Anaphylaxis/anaphylactoid reactions and hypersensitivity reactions including angioedema have been reported in patients taking frovatriptan. Such reactions may be life-threatening or fatal and are more likely to occur in patients with a history of sensitivity to multiple allergens.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe

Description
  Text
  Frovatriptan is a central serotonin-receptor 1B and 1D agonist that is indicated for the treatment of acute migraine attacks with or without aura. Frovatriptan is not indicated for the treatment of hemiplegic or basilar migraines or cluster headaches. The drug may be used off-label for menstrual migraine prophylaxis. As with other second-generation 5-HT1 receptor agonists ("triptans"), frovatriptan is more lipophilic than sumatriptan. Frovatriptan was also found to be a more potent contractile agent, compared to sumatriptan, on isolated basilar artery tissue. Frovatriptan has a lower headache recurrence rate, compared to other agents in the triptan class, which may be explained by the long (26 hour) half-life, as well as the increased lipophilicity and potent contractile effects of this drug. Frovatriptan was approved by the FDA in November 2001.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Frovatriptan is a selective agonist of vascular serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine 1B/1D; 5-HT1B/D) receptors. Frovatriptan has no significant activity at other 5-HT receptors, GABA-mediated channels, or benzodiazepine receptors. The mechanisms involved in the pathogenesis of migraine are not clearly understood, therefore making it difficult to determine the precise mechanism of serotonin-agonists (i.e., 'triptans') in the treatment of migraine. Multiple pharmacological actions have been derived that appear important for antimigraine effects.. 'Triptans' stimulate presynaptic 5-HT1D receptors, an action that inhibits both dural vasodilation and inflammation. They directly inhibit trigeminal nuclei cell nociceptive neurotransmission via 5-HT1B/D receptor agonism within the trigeminocervical complex of the brainstem and upper spinal cord. Vascular 5-HT1B receptor agonism results in vasoconstriction of painfully dilated intracranial extracerebral vessels.. In general, second-generation 'triptans' are less likely to aggravate the coronary 5-HT1B receptor than sumatriptan, which should reduce the incidence of chest pain or other cardiac effects in patients with normal coronary circulation. However, in therapeutic use such events have been rarely reported with all agents.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    The absolute bioavailability of frovatriptan is low and, although it has no impact on dosing, varies according to gender, 20% in males and 30% in females. Peak plasma levels of frovatriptan occur 2—4 hours after oral administration; food has no significant affects on frovatriptan's bioavailability, but it does delay the Tmax by 1 hour.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    The absolute bioavailability of frovatriptan varies according to gender, 20% in males and 30% in females.
  Text
  Frovatriptan is administered orally. It exhibits minimal protein binding (roughly 15%). The mean elimination half-life is 26 hours. Frovatriptan is primarily metabolized by cytochrome P450 1A2. Unlike most other 5-HT1 agonists, it is not an inhibitor of monoamine oxidase (MAO) or hepatic cytochrome P450 microsomal isozymes (e.g., 2C9, 2C19, 2D6, 2E1, 3A4), and, therefore, appears to have fewer drug interactions than other drugs in the class. Frovatriptan has several metabolites and only one, desmethyl frovatriptan, has a reported affinity (although, low) for the 5-HT1 receptor. Approximately 30% of the oral dose is eliminated renally and 60% is excreted in the feces.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes: CYP1A2
Frovatriptan is a substrate of the hepatic cytochrome isoenzyme CYP1A2; however clinically significant interactions with CYP1A2 inhibitors are not likely due to its' wide therapeutic range in addition to its partial renal elimination.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      The tablets should be taken with water.
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Frovatriptan is administered orally without regard to meals.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    7.5 mg/day PO for acute migraine treatment.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    7.5 mg/day PO for acute migraine treatment.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
Intermittent hemodialysis:
It is not known whether hemodialysis (or peritoneal dialysis) removes frovatriptan from plasma.
