=== Bethanechol (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 66)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Bethanechol is a synthetic parasympathomimetic indicated for the treatment of urinary retention associated with neurogenic bladder.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 200 mg/day PO (single maximum dose: 50 mg PO).

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): borborygmi, hypersalivation, dizziness, headache, malaise, seizures, syncope

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Bethanechol use is contraindicated when the strength or integrity of the gastrointestinal or bladder wall is questionable. Increased muscular activity of the GI tract or bladder may prove harmful, worsening the underlying condition and risking rupture or perforation.

Brand Names
  - Duvoid
  - Urecholine
  - Urecholine Solution

Dosage Forms
  - Bethanechol Chloride 10mg Oral tablet
  - Bethanechol Chloride 25mg Oral tablet
  - Bethanechol Chloride 50mg Oral tablet
  - Bethanechol Chloride 5mg Oral tablet
  - Bethanechol Chloride Bulk powder

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        5 to 10 mg PO every hour, initially, until satisfactory response occurs or a maximum of 50 mg has been given. Usual dose: 10 to 50 mg PO 3 to 4 times daily.
    Heading
    For treatment of atonic neurogenic bladder or acute postoperative and postpartum non-obstructive urinary retention
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        10 to 25 mg PO 4 times per day, after meals and at bedtime, has been used.
    Heading
    For the treatment of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD)† by increasing lower esophageal pressure
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        10 to 20 mg PO 3 to 4 times per day before meals.
    Heading
    For the treatment of gastric atony† or adynamic ileus†
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        A dosage of 25 mg PO 3 times per day has been used.
    Heading
    For treating disabling anticholinergic side effects 'anticholinergic syndrome' from medications such as tricyclic antidepressants†

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Bethanechol use is contraindicated when the strength or integrity of the gastrointestinal or bladder wall is questionable. Increased muscular activity of the GI tract or bladder may prove harmful, worsening the underlying condition and risking rupture or perforation. Conditions that contraindicate bethanechol use include: GI obstruction (ileus) and bladder obstruction or urinary tract obstruction. Bethanechol is contraindicated in patients with inflammatory bowel disease, peritonitis, marked vagotonia, or who have undergone recent gastrointestinal or bladder surgery. Increased stimulation of gastric acid also contraindicates bethanechol use in peptic ulcer disease.
 
Bethanechol use is contraindicated in patients with pronounced bradycardia, hypotension, or coronary artery disease. Bethanechol can cause orthostatic hypotension, specifically after subcutaneous administration, and should be used with caution in patients at risk for syncope. Bethanechol should never be given by intramuscular injections or intravenous administration. Administration by either of these routes can precipitate cholinergic over-stimulation, causing circulatory collapse, sudden hypotension, abdominal cramps, bloody diarrhea, shock, or sudden cardiac arrest. A more precipitous drop in blood pressure can be seen in patients with hypertension. Administration by the oral or subcutaneous route can have a mild negative chronotropic effect. Due to potential for orthostatic hypotension, patients may be warned to avoid driving or operating machinery until the effects of bethanechol are known.
 
Bethanechol is contraindicated in patients with asthma; Bethanechol should also be avoided in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) because cholinergic stimulation constricts the airways.
 
Bethanechol is also contraindicated in patients with hyperthyroidism, seizures, or seizure disorder, and parkinsonism because it can exacerbate these conditions. Cholinergic drugs may precipitate atrial fibrillation in patients with hyperthyroidism.
 
The manufacturer states that the safe and effective use of bethanechol in children has not been established. However, bethanechol has been used off-label to treat children with urinary retention or certain GI conditions (see Dosage).
 
Bethanechol is classified in FDA pregnancy risk category C. Adequate studies have not been done to determine whether bethanechol is teratogenic.
 
Bethanechol should only be administered during pregnancy when benefit to the mother outweighs the risk. It is not known if bethanechol is excreted into breast-milk. If bethanechol therapy is essential, breast-feeding should be discontinued because of the potential for severe adverse effects in nursing infants.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    bladder obstruction, bladder surgery, decreased bladder wall integrity, decreased gastrointestinal wall integrity, gastrointestinal anastomosis, GI obstruction, GI spasm, peritonitis, vagotonia
    General Information
    Bethanechol use is contraindicated in people with decreased bladder wall integrity or decreased gastrointestinal wall integrity, or in conditions when the strength or integrity of the bladder or gastrointestinal (GI) wall is questionable. Use is also contraindicated in conditions where increased muscular activity of the GI tract or bladder may prove harmful, such as following recent bladder surgery, gastrointestinal anastomosis and/or resection, or when there is possible GI obstruction. Additionally, bethanechol is contraindicated in bladder neck obstruction (bladder obstruction), GI spasm, acute inflammatory lesions of the gastrointestinal tract (such as inflammatory bowel disease), or peritonitis, peptic ulcer disease, and marked vagotonia.
    Headline
    bradycardia, coronary artery disease, hypotension, vasomotor instability
    General Information
    Use of bethanechol is contraindicated in people with pronounced bradycardia, hypotension, coronary artery disease, and/or vasomotor instability.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Bethanechol chloride should be given during pregnancy only if clearly needed. It is not known whether bethanechol can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity. Bethanechol has not been evaluated in animal reproductive studies.
    Headline
    asthma
    General Information
    Bethanechol is contraindicated in patients with latent or active bronchial asthma.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    It is not known if bethanechol is excreted into breast milk. Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions from bethanechol chloride in nursing infants, a decision should be made whether to discontinue breast-feeding or to discontinue bethanechol, taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother.
    Headline
    hyperthyroidism, parkinsonism, seizure disorder
    General Information
    Bethanechol is contraindicated in people with hyperthyroidism, parkinsonism, or a seizure disorder.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Bethanechol chloride should be given during pregnancy only if clearly needed. It is not known whether bethanechol can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity. Bethanechol has not been evaluated in animal reproductive studies.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    It is not known if bethanechol is excreted into breast milk. Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions from bethanechol chloride in nursing infants, a decision should be made whether to discontinue breast-feeding or to discontinue bethanechol, taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Drugs that possess antimuscarinic properties, such as diphenhydramine, are pharmacologic opposites of bethanechol. These agents should not be used with bethanechol except when the specific intent is to counteract excessive actions of one or the other.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Bethanechol facilitates intestinal and bladder function via parasympathomimetic actions. Opiate agonists impair the peristaltic activity of the intestine. Thus, these drugs can antagonize the beneficial actions of bethanechol on GI motility.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Bethanechol facilitates intestinal and bladder function via parasympathomimetic actions. Opiate agonists impair the peristaltic activity of the intestine. Thus, these drugs can antagonize the beneficial actions of bethanechol on GI motility.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Acetaminophen; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Drugs that possess antimuscarinic properties, such as diphenhydramine, are pharmacologic opposites of bethanechol. These agents should not be used with bethanechol except when the specific intent is to counteract excessive actions of one or the other.
Acetaminophen; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Bethanechol facilitates intestinal and bladder function via parasympathomimetic actions. Opiate agonists impair the peristaltic activity of the intestine. Thus, these drugs can antagonize the beneficial actions of bethanechol on GI motility.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Bethanechol facilitates intestinal and bladder function via parasympathomimetic actions. Opiate agonists impair the peristaltic activity of the intestine. Thus, these drugs can antagonize the beneficial actions of bethanechol on GI motility.
Acetaminophen; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Acetaminophen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Bethanechol facilitates intestinal and bladder function via parasympathomimetic actions. Opiate agonists impair the peristaltic activity of the intestine. Thus, these drugs can antagonize the beneficial actions of bethanechol on GI motility.
Alosetron: (Moderate) Pharmacodynamic interactions between alosetron and drugs that enhance peristalsis are theoretically possible, based on opposing pharmacologic outcomes. It may be wise to avoid use of bethanechol during alosetron treatment. Although these potential interactions have not been studied, bethanechol might negate the effect of alosetron.
Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) may antagonize some of the effects of parasympathomimetics (e.g., cholinesterase inhibitors) due to their anticholinergic activity. However, parasympathomimetics like bethanechol have occasionally been used historically to offset some of the adverse peripheral antimuscarinic (anticholinergic) effects of TCAs, such as dry mouth, constipation, or urinary retention. For years, physostigmine was used as an adjunct to the treatment of TCA overdose; however, its efficacy was limited to addressing anticholinergic effects. Additionally, case reports suggest that harmful effects such as seizures and bradyarrhythmias progressing to asystole, especially in patients with cardiac conduction abnormalities at baseline, are possible. For these reasons, physostigmine is no longer considered a standard of care in the treatment of TCA overdose.
Amoxapine: (Major) Amoxapine may antagonize some of the effects of parasympathomimetics. However, bethanechol has occasionally been used therapeutically to offset some of the adverse antimuscarinic effects of cyclic antidepressants. Due to their anticholinergic actions, some cyclic antidepressants, such as amoxapine, may potentially antagonize the therapeutic actions of cholinergic agonists.
Amphetamine: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Anticholinergics: (Major) The muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including both direct cholinergic receptor agonists and cholinesterase inhibitors, can antagonize the antimuscarinic actions of anticholinergic drugs, and vice versa.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Bethanechol facilitates intestinal and bladder function via parasympathomimetic actions. Opiate agonists impair the peristaltic activity of the intestine. Thus, these drugs can antagonize the beneficial actions of bethanechol on GI motility.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Bethanechol facilitates intestinal and bladder function via parasympathomimetic actions. Opiate agonists impair the peristaltic activity of the intestine. Thus, these drugs can antagonize the beneficial actions of bethanechol on GI motility.
Atropine: (Major) The muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including both direct cholinergic receptor agonists and cholinesterase inhibitors, can antagonize the antimuscarinic actions of anticholinergic drugs, and vice versa.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Major) The muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including both direct cholinergic receptor agonists and cholinesterase inhibitors, can antagonize the antimuscarinic actions of anticholinergic drugs, and vice versa. (Moderate) Pharmacodynamic interactions between antidiarrheals and drugs that enhance peristalsis are theoretically possible. It is wise to avoid use of antidiarrheals in patients who require bethanechol.
Belladonna; Opium: (Major) The muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including both direct cholinergic receptor agonists and cholinesterase inhibitors, can antagonize the antimuscarinic actions of anticholinergic drugs, and vice versa. (Moderate) Bethanechol facilitates intestinal and bladder function via parasympathomimetic actions. Opiate agonists impair the peristaltic activity of the intestine. Thus, these drugs can antagonize the beneficial actions of bethanechol on GI motility.
Benzgalantamine: (Major) Cholinergic agonists can cause additive pharmacodynamic effects if used concomitantly with cholinesterase inhibitors. Concurrent use is unlikely to be tolerated by the patient and should be avoided.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Bethanechol facilitates intestinal and bladder function via parasympathomimetic actions. Opiate agonists impair the peristaltic activity of the intestine. Thus, these drugs can antagonize the beneficial actions of bethanechol on GI motility.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Major) The muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including both direct cholinergic receptor agonists and cholinesterase inhibitors, can antagonize the antimuscarinic actions of anticholinergic drugs, and vice versa.
Benzphetamine: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Benztropine: (Major) The muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including both direct cholinergic receptor agonists and cholinesterase inhibitors, can antagonize the antimuscarinic actions of anticholinergic drugs, and vice versa.
Bismuth Subsalicylate: (Moderate) Pharmacodynamic interactions between loperamide and drugs that enhance peristalsis are theoretically possible. It is wise to avoid use loperamide in patients who require bethanechol.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Pharmacodynamic interactions between loperamide and drugs that enhance peristalsis are theoretically possible. It is wise to avoid use loperamide in patients who require bethanechol.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Major) The muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including both direct cholinergic receptor agonists and cholinesterase inhibitors, can antagonize the antimuscarinic actions of anticholinergic drugs, and vice versa.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
buPROPion: (Moderate) Bupropion exhibits moderate anticholinergic properties. Avoid co-use when possible since the effects of bethanechol, a cholinergic agonist, may be diminished. If co-use is necessary, monitor for the intended clinical response.
buPROPion; Naltrexone: (Moderate) Bupropion exhibits moderate anticholinergic properties. Avoid co-use when possible since the effects of bethanechol, a cholinergic agonist, may be diminished. If co-use is necessary, monitor for the intended clinical response.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Bethanechol facilitates intestinal and bladder function via parasympathomimetic actions. Opiate agonists impair the peristaltic activity of the intestine. Thus, these drugs can antagonize the beneficial actions of bethanechol on GI motility.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Bethanechol facilitates intestinal and bladder function via parasympathomimetic actions. Opiate agonists impair the peristaltic activity of the intestine. Thus, these drugs can antagonize the beneficial actions of bethanechol on GI motility.
Carbinoxamine: (Moderate) Drugs that possess antimuscarinic properties, such as carbinoxamine, are pharmacologic opposites of bethanechol. These agents should not be used with bethanechol except when the specific intent is to counteract excessive actions of one or the other.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Bethanechol facilitates intestinal and bladder function via parasympathomimetic actions. Opiate agonists impair the peristaltic activity of the intestine. Thus, these drugs can antagonize the beneficial actions of bethanechol on GI motility.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Cevimeline: (Moderate) Cevimeline and bethanechol are both cholinergic agonists. Coadministration is expected to result in additive parasympathomimetic effects.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) may antagonize some of the effects of parasympathomimetics (e.g., cholinesterase inhibitors) due to their anticholinergic activity. However, parasympathomimetics like bethanechol have occasionally been used historically to offset some of the adverse peripheral antimuscarinic (anticholinergic) effects of TCAs, such as dry mouth, constipation, or urinary retention. For years, physostigmine was used as an adjunct to the treatment of TCA overdose; however, its efficacy was limited to addressing anticholinergic effects. Additionally, case reports suggest that harmful effects such as seizures and bradyarrhythmias progressing to asystole, especially in patients with cardiac conduction abnormalities at baseline, are possible. For these reasons, physostigmine is no longer considered a standard of care in the treatment of TCA overdose.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Major) The muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including both direct cholinergic receptor agonists and cholinesterase inhibitors, can antagonize the antimuscarinic actions of anticholinergic drugs, and vice versa.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Bethanechol facilitates intestinal and bladder function via parasympathomimetic actions. Opiate agonists impair the peristaltic activity of the intestine. Thus, these drugs can antagonize the beneficial actions of bethanechol on GI motility.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Bethanechol facilitates intestinal and bladder function via parasympathomimetic actions. Opiate agonists impair the peristaltic activity of the intestine. Thus, these drugs can antagonize the beneficial actions of bethanechol on GI motility.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
chlorproMAZINE: (Moderate) Drugs that possess antimuscarinic properties, such as chlorpromazine, are pharmacologic opposites of bethanechol. These agents should not be used with bethanechol except when the specific intent is to counteract excessive actions of one or the other.
Cholinesterase inhibitors: (Major) Cholinergic agonists can cause additive pharmacodynamic effects if used concomitantly with cholinesterase inhibitors. Concurrent use is unlikely to be tolerated by the patient and should be avoided.
Clemastine: (Moderate) Drugs that possess antimuscarinic properties, such as clemastine, are pharmacologic opposites of bethanechol. These agents should not be used with bethanechol except when the specific intent is to counteract excessive actions of one or the other.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) may antagonize some of the effects of parasympathomimetics (e.g., cholinesterase inhibitors) due to their anticholinergic activity. However, parasympathomimetics like bethanechol have occasionally been used historically to offset some of the adverse peripheral antimuscarinic (anticholinergic) effects of TCAs, such as dry mouth, constipation, or urinary retention. For years, physostigmine was used as an adjunct to the treatment of TCA overdose; however, its efficacy was limited to addressing anticholinergic effects. Additionally, case reports suggest that harmful effects such as seizures and bradyarrhythmias progressing to asystole, especially in patients with cardiac conduction abnormalities at baseline, are possible. For these reasons, physostigmine is no longer considered a standard of care in the treatment of TCA overdose.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Drugs that possess antimuscarinic properties, such as clozapine, are pharmacologic opposites of bethanechol. These agents should not be used with bethanechol except when the specific intent is to counteract excessive actions of one or the other.
Codeine: (Moderate) Bethanechol facilitates intestinal and bladder function via parasympathomimetic actions. Opiate agonists impair the peristaltic activity of the intestine. Thus, these drugs can antagonize the beneficial actions of bethanechol on GI motility.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Bethanechol facilitates intestinal and bladder function via parasympathomimetic actions. Opiate agonists impair the peristaltic activity of the intestine. Thus, these drugs can antagonize the beneficial actions of bethanechol on GI motility.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Bethanechol facilitates intestinal and bladder function via parasympathomimetic actions. Opiate agonists impair the peristaltic activity of the intestine. Thus, these drugs can antagonize the beneficial actions of bethanechol on GI motility.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Bethanechol facilitates intestinal and bladder function via parasympathomimetic actions. Opiate agonists impair the peristaltic activity of the intestine. Thus, these drugs can antagonize the beneficial actions of bethanechol on GI motility. (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Bethanechol facilitates intestinal and bladder function via parasympathomimetic actions. Opiate agonists impair the peristaltic activity of the intestine. Thus, these drugs can antagonize the beneficial actions of bethanechol on GI motility. (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects. (Moderate) Drugs that possess antimuscarinic properties, such as promethazine, are pharmacologic opposites of bethanechol. These agents should not be used with bethanechol except when the specific intent is to counteract excessive actions of one or the other.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Bethanechol facilitates intestinal and bladder function via parasympathomimetic actions. Opiate agonists impair the peristaltic activity of the intestine. Thus, these drugs can antagonize the beneficial actions of bethanechol on GI motility. (Moderate) Drugs that possess antimuscarinic properties, such as promethazine, are pharmacologic opposites of bethanechol. These agents should not be used with bethanechol except when the specific intent is to counteract excessive actions of one or the other.
Desipramine: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) may antagonize some of the effects of parasympathomimetics (e.g., cholinesterase inhibitors) due to their anticholinergic activity. However, parasympathomimetics like bethanechol have occasionally been used historically to offset some of the adverse peripheral antimuscarinic (anticholinergic) effects of TCAs, such as dry mouth, constipation, or urinary retention. For years, physostigmine was used as an adjunct to the treatment of TCA overdose; however, its efficacy was limited to addressing anticholinergic effects. Additionally, case reports suggest that harmful effects such as seizures and bradyarrhythmias progressing to asystole, especially in patients with cardiac conduction abnormalities at baseline, are possible. For these reasons, physostigmine is no longer considered a standard of care in the treatment of TCA overdose.
Desloratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Dextromethorphan; buPROPion: (Moderate) Bupropion exhibits moderate anticholinergic properties. Avoid co-use when possible since the effects of bethanechol, a cholinergic agonist, may be diminished. If co-use is necessary, monitor for the intended clinical response.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects. (Moderate) Drugs that possess antimuscarinic properties, such as diphenhydramine, are pharmacologic opposites of bethanechol. These agents should not be used with bethanechol except when the specific intent is to counteract excessive actions of one or the other.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Moderate) Drugs that possess antimuscarinic properties, such as quinidine, are pharmacologic opposites of bethanechol. These agents should not be used with bethanechol except when the specific intent is to counteract excessive actions of one or the other.
Dicyclomine: (Major) The muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including both direct cholinergic receptor agonists and cholinesterase inhibitors, can antagonize the antimuscarinic actions of anticholinergic drugs, and vice versa.
Diethylpropion: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Drugs that possess antimuscarinic properties, such as diphenhydramine, are pharmacologic opposites of bethanechol. These agents should not be used with bethanechol except when the specific intent is to counteract excessive actions of one or the other.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Drugs that possess antimuscarinic properties, such as diphenhydramine, are pharmacologic opposites of bethanechol. These agents should not be used with bethanechol except when the specific intent is to counteract excessive actions of one or the other.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Drugs that possess antimuscarinic properties, such as diphenhydramine, are pharmacologic opposites of bethanechol. These agents should not be used with bethanechol except when the specific intent is to counteract excessive actions of one or the other.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects. (Moderate) Drugs that possess antimuscarinic properties, such as diphenhydramine, are pharmacologic opposites of bethanechol. These agents should not be used with bethanechol except when the specific intent is to counteract excessive actions of one or the other.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Major) The muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including both direct cholinergic receptor agonists and cholinesterase inhibitors, can antagonize the antimuscarinic actions of anticholinergic drugs, and vice versa. (Moderate) Pharmacodynamic interactions between antidiarrheals and drugs that enhance peristalsis are theoretically possible. It is wise to avoid use of antidiarrheals in patients who require bethanechol.
Disopyramide: (Moderate) Disopyramide possesses clinically significant antimuscarinic properties and these appear to be dose-related. It is possible that disopyramide could antagonize the muscarinic actions of cholinergic agonists. Clinicians should be alert to this possibility.
DOBUTamine: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Donepezil: (Major) Cholinergic agonists can cause additive pharmacodynamic effects if used concomitantly with cholinesterase inhibitors. Concurrent use is unlikely to be tolerated by the patient and should be avoided.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Major) Cholinergic agonists can cause additive pharmacodynamic effects if used concomitantly with cholinesterase inhibitors. Concurrent use is unlikely to be tolerated by the patient and should be avoided.
DOPamine: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Doxapram: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Doxepin: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) may antagonize some of the effects of parasympathomimetics (e.g., cholinesterase inhibitors) due to their anticholinergic activity. However, parasympathomimetics like bethanechol have occasionally been used historically to offset some of the adverse peripheral antimuscarinic (anticholinergic) effects of TCAs, such as dry mouth, constipation, or urinary retention. For years, physostigmine was used as an adjunct to the treatment of TCA overdose; however, its efficacy was limited to addressing anticholinergic effects. Additionally, case reports suggest that harmful effects such as seizures and bradyarrhythmias progressing to asystole, especially in patients with cardiac conduction abnormalities at baseline, are possible. For these reasons, physostigmine is no longer considered a standard of care in the treatment of TCA overdose.
ePHEDrine: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
ePHEDrine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Bethanechol facilitates intestinal and bladder function via parasympathomimetic actions. Opiate agonists impair the peristaltic activity of the intestine. Thus, these drugs can antagonize the beneficial actions of bethanechol on GI motility.
Fexofenadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
flavoxATE: (Major) The muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including both direct cholinergic receptor agonists and cholinesterase inhibitors, can antagonize the antimuscarinic actions of anticholinergic drugs, and vice versa.
Galantamine: (Major) Cholinergic agonists can cause additive pharmacodynamic effects if used concomitantly with cholinesterase inhibitors. Concurrent use is unlikely to be tolerated by the patient and should be avoided.
Gepotidacin: (Major) Cholinergic agonists can cause additive pharmacodynamic effects if used concomitantly with cholinesterase inhibitors. Concurrent use is unlikely to be tolerated by the patient and should be avoided.
Glycopyrrolate: (Major) The muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including both direct cholinergic receptor agonists and cholinesterase inhibitors, can antagonize the antimuscarinic actions of anticholinergic drugs, and vice versa.
Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Major) The muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including both direct cholinergic receptor agonists and cholinesterase inhibitors, can antagonize the antimuscarinic actions of anticholinergic drugs, and vice versa.
guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Major) The muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including both direct cholinergic receptor agonists and cholinesterase inhibitors, can antagonize the antimuscarinic actions of anticholinergic drugs, and vice versa. (Moderate) Bethanechol facilitates intestinal and bladder function via parasympathomimetic actions. Opiate agonists impair the peristaltic activity of the intestine. Thus, these drugs can antagonize the beneficial actions of bethanechol on GI motility.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Bethanechol facilitates intestinal and bladder function via parasympathomimetic actions. Opiate agonists impair the peristaltic activity of the intestine. Thus, these drugs can antagonize the beneficial actions of bethanechol on GI motility.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Bethanechol facilitates intestinal and bladder function via parasympathomimetic actions. Opiate agonists impair the peristaltic activity of the intestine. Thus, these drugs can antagonize the beneficial actions of bethanechol on GI motility.
HYDROmorphone: (Moderate) Bethanechol facilitates intestinal and bladder function via parasympathomimetic actions. Opiate agonists impair the peristaltic activity of the intestine. Thus, these drugs can antagonize the beneficial actions of bethanechol on GI motility.
Hyoscyamine: (Major) The muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including both direct cholinergic receptor agonists and cholinesterase inhibitors, can antagonize the antimuscarinic actions of anticholinergic drugs, and vice versa.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Major) The muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including both direct cholinergic receptor agonists and cholinesterase inhibitors, can antagonize the antimuscarinic actions of anticholinergic drugs, and vice versa.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Imipramine: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) may antagonize some of the effects of parasympathomimetics (e.g., cholinesterase inhibitors) due to their anticholinergic activity. However, parasympathomimetics like bethanechol have occasionally been used historically to offset some of the adverse peripheral antimuscarinic (anticholinergic) effects of TCAs, such as dry mouth, constipation, or urinary retention. For years, physostigmine was used as an adjunct to the treatment of TCA overdose; however, its efficacy was limited to addressing anticholinergic effects. Additionally, case reports suggest that harmful effects such as seizures and bradyarrhythmias progressing to asystole, especially in patients with cardiac conduction abnormalities at baseline, are possible. For these reasons, physostigmine is no longer considered a standard of care in the treatment of TCA overdose.
Isoproterenol: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Levorphanol: (Moderate) Bethanechol facilitates intestinal and bladder function via parasympathomimetic actions. Opiate agonists impair the peristaltic activity of the intestine. Thus, these drugs can antagonize the beneficial actions of bethanechol on GI motility.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Lisdexamfetamine: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Loratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Mecamylamine: (Major) Ganglionic blocking agents, such as mecamylamine and trimethaphan, may cause significant hypotension when co-administered with bethanechol. Severe abdominal symptoms may precede the drop in blood pressure.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Bethanechol facilitates intestinal and bladder function via parasympathomimetic actions. Opiate agonists impair the peristaltic activity of the intestine. Thus, these drugs can antagonize the beneficial actions of bethanechol on GI motility.
Methadone: (Moderate) Bethanechol facilitates intestinal and bladder function via parasympathomimetic actions. Opiate agonists impair the peristaltic activity of the intestine. Thus, these drugs can antagonize the beneficial actions of bethanechol on GI motility.
Methamphetamine: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Methenamine; Sodium Acid Phosphate; Methylene Blue; Hyoscyamine: (Major) The muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including both direct cholinergic receptor agonists and cholinesterase inhibitors, can antagonize the antimuscarinic actions of anticholinergic drugs, and vice versa.
Methscopolamine: (Major) The muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including both direct cholinergic receptor agonists and cholinesterase inhibitors, can antagonize the antimuscarinic actions of anticholinergic drugs, and vice versa.
Methylphenidate: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Midodrine: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Morphine: (Moderate) Bethanechol facilitates intestinal and bladder function via parasympathomimetic actions. Opiate agonists impair the peristaltic activity of the intestine. Thus, these drugs can antagonize the beneficial actions of bethanechol on GI motility.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Neostigmine: (Major) Cholinergic agonists can cause additive pharmacodynamic effects if used concomitantly with cholinesterase inhibitors. Concurrent use is unlikely to be tolerated by the patient and should be avoided.
Neostigmine; Glycopyrrolate: (Major) Cholinergic agonists can cause additive pharmacodynamic effects if used concomitantly with cholinesterase inhibitors. Concurrent use is unlikely to be tolerated by the patient and should be avoided. (Major) The muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including both direct cholinergic receptor agonists and cholinesterase inhibitors, can antagonize the antimuscarinic actions of anticholinergic drugs, and vice versa.
Norepinephrine: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Nortriptyline: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) may antagonize some of the effects of parasympathomimetics (e.g., cholinesterase inhibitors) due to their anticholinergic activity. However, parasympathomimetics like bethanechol have occasionally been used historically to offset some of the adverse peripheral antimuscarinic (anticholinergic) effects of TCAs, such as dry mouth, constipation, or urinary retention. For years, physostigmine was used as an adjunct to the treatment of TCA overdose; however, its efficacy was limited to addressing anticholinergic effects. Additionally, case reports suggest that harmful effects such as seizures and bradyarrhythmias progressing to asystole, especially in patients with cardiac conduction abnormalities at baseline, are possible. For these reasons, physostigmine is no longer considered a standard of care in the treatment of TCA overdose.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Drugs that possess antimuscarinic properties, such as olanzapine, are pharmacologic opposites of bethanechol (a direct agonist at muscarinic cholinergic receptors). These agents should not be used with bethanechol except when the specific intent is to counteract excessive actions of one or the other.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Drugs that possess antimuscarinic properties, such as olanzapine, are pharmacologic opposites of bethanechol (a direct agonist at muscarinic cholinergic receptors). These agents should not be used with bethanechol except when the specific intent is to counteract excessive actions of one or the other.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Drugs that possess antimuscarinic properties, such as olanzapine, are pharmacologic opposites of bethanechol (a direct agonist at muscarinic cholinergic receptors). These agents should not be used with bethanechol except when the specific intent is to counteract excessive actions of one or the other.
Oliceridine: (Moderate) Bethanechol facilitates intestinal and bladder function via parasympathomimetic actions. Opiate agonists impair the peristaltic activity of the intestine. Thus, these drugs can antagonize the beneficial actions of bethanechol on GI motility.
Opiate Agonists: (Moderate) Bethanechol facilitates intestinal and bladder function via parasympathomimetic actions. Opiate agonists impair the peristaltic activity of the intestine. Thus, these drugs can antagonize the beneficial actions of bethanechol on GI motility.
oxyBUTYnin: (Major) The muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including both direct cholinergic receptor agonists and cholinesterase inhibitors, can antagonize the antimuscarinic actions of anticholinergic drugs, and vice versa.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Bethanechol facilitates intestinal and bladder function via parasympathomimetic actions. Opiate agonists impair the peristaltic activity of the intestine. Thus, these drugs can antagonize the beneficial actions of bethanechol on GI motility.
oxyMORphone: (Moderate) Bethanechol facilitates intestinal and bladder function via parasympathomimetic actions. Opiate agonists impair the peristaltic activity of the intestine. Thus, these drugs can antagonize the beneficial actions of bethanechol on GI motility.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) may antagonize some of the effects of parasympathomimetics (e.g., cholinesterase inhibitors) due to their anticholinergic activity. However, parasympathomimetics like bethanechol have occasionally been used historically to offset some of the adverse peripheral antimuscarinic (anticholinergic) effects of TCAs, such as dry mouth, constipation, or urinary retention. For years, physostigmine was used as an adjunct to the treatment of TCA overdose; however, its efficacy was limited to addressing anticholinergic effects. Additionally, case reports suggest that harmful effects such as seizures and bradyarrhythmias progressing to asystole, especially in patients with cardiac conduction abnormalities at baseline, are possible. For these reasons, physostigmine is no longer considered a standard of care in the treatment of TCA overdose.
Phendimetrazine: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) The muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including both direct cholinergic receptor agonists and cholinesterase inhibitors, can antagonize the antimuscarinic actions of anticholinergic drugs, and vice versa.
Phentermine: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
PHYSostigmine: (Major) Cholinergic agonists can cause additive pharmacodynamic effects if used concomitantly with cholinesterase inhibitors. Concurrent use is unlikely to be tolerated by the patient and should be avoided.
Pilocarpine: (Moderate) Pilocarpine and bethanechol are both cholinergic agonists. Coadministration is expected to result in additive parasympathomimetic effects.
Pralidoxime: (Moderate) Pralidoxime and bethanechol are both cholinergic agonists. Coadministration is expected to result in additive parasympathomimetic effects.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Procainamide: (Moderate) Drugs that possess antimuscarinic properties, such as procainamide, are pharmacologic opposites of bethanechol. These agents should not be used with bethanechol except when the specific intent is to counteract excessive actions of one or the other.
Promethazine: (Moderate) Drugs that possess antimuscarinic properties, such as promethazine, are pharmacologic opposites of bethanechol. These agents should not be used with bethanechol except when the specific intent is to counteract excessive actions of one or the other.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Drugs that possess antimuscarinic properties, such as promethazine, are pharmacologic opposites of bethanechol. These agents should not be used with bethanechol except when the specific intent is to counteract excessive actions of one or the other.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects. (Moderate) Drugs that possess antimuscarinic properties, such as promethazine, are pharmacologic opposites of bethanechol. These agents should not be used with bethanechol except when the specific intent is to counteract excessive actions of one or the other.
Protriptyline: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) may antagonize some of the effects of parasympathomimetics (e.g., cholinesterase inhibitors) due to their anticholinergic activity. However, parasympathomimetics like bethanechol have occasionally been used historically to offset some of the adverse peripheral antimuscarinic (anticholinergic) effects of TCAs, such as dry mouth, constipation, or urinary retention. For years, physostigmine was used as an adjunct to the treatment of TCA overdose; however, its efficacy was limited to addressing anticholinergic effects. Additionally, case reports suggest that harmful effects such as seizures and bradyarrhythmias progressing to asystole, especially in patients with cardiac conduction abnormalities at baseline, are possible. For these reasons, physostigmine is no longer considered a standard of care in the treatment of TCA overdose.
Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
pyRIDostigmine: (Major) Cholinergic agonists can cause additive pharmacodynamic effects if used concomitantly with cholinesterase inhibitors. Concurrent use is unlikely to be tolerated by the patient and should be avoided.
quiNIDine: (Moderate) Drugs that possess antimuscarinic properties, such as quinidine, are pharmacologic opposites of bethanechol. These agents should not be used with bethanechol except when the specific intent is to counteract excessive actions of one or the other.
Racepinephrine: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Remifentanil: (Moderate) Bethanechol facilitates intestinal and bladder function via parasympathomimetic actions. Opiate agonists impair the peristaltic activity of the intestine. Thus, these drugs can antagonize the beneficial actions of bethanechol on GI motility.
Rivastigmine: (Major) Cholinergic agonists can cause additive pharmacodynamic effects if used concomitantly with cholinesterase inhibitors. Concurrent use is unlikely to be tolerated by the patient and should be avoided.
Scopolamine: (Major) The muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including both direct cholinergic receptor agonists and cholinesterase inhibitors, can antagonize the antimuscarinic actions of anticholinergic drugs, and vice versa.
Serdexmethylphenidate; Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Sincalide: (Moderate) Sincalide-induced gallbladder ejection fraction may be affected by bethanechol. False study results are possible in patients with drug-induced hyper- or hypo-responsiveness; thorough patient history is important in the interpretation of results.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Bethanechol facilitates intestinal and bladder function via parasympathomimetic actions. Opiate agonists impair the peristaltic activity of the intestine. Thus, these drugs can antagonize the beneficial actions of bethanechol on GI motility.
Sympathomimetics: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Tapentadol: (Moderate) Bethanechol facilitates intestinal and bladder function via parasympathomimetic actions. Opiate agonists impair the peristaltic activity of the intestine. Thus, these drugs can antagonize the beneficial actions of bethanechol on GI motility.
Thioridazine: (Moderate) Drugs that possess antimuscarinic properties, such as thioridazine, are pharmacologic opposites of bethanechol. These agents should not be used with bethanechol except when the specific intent is to counteract excessive actions of one or the other.
traMADol: (Moderate) Bethanechol facilitates intestinal and bladder function via parasympathomimetic actions. Opiate agonists impair the peristaltic activity of the intestine. Thus, these drugs can antagonize the beneficial actions of bethanechol on GI motility.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Bethanechol facilitates intestinal and bladder function via parasympathomimetic actions. Opiate agonists impair the peristaltic activity of the intestine. Thus, these drugs can antagonize the beneficial actions of bethanechol on GI motility.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) may antagonize some of the effects of parasympathomimetics (e.g., cholinesterase inhibitors) due to their anticholinergic activity. However, parasympathomimetics like bethanechol have occasionally been used historically to offset some of the adverse peripheral antimuscarinic (anticholinergic) effects of TCAs, such as dry mouth, constipation, or urinary retention. For years, physostigmine was used as an adjunct to the treatment of TCA overdose; however, its efficacy was limited to addressing anticholinergic effects. Additionally, case reports suggest that harmful effects such as seizures and bradyarrhythmias progressing to asystole, especially in patients with cardiac conduction abnormalities at baseline, are possible. For these reasons, physostigmine is no longer considered a standard of care in the treatment of TCA overdose.
Trihexyphenidyl: (Major) The muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including both direct cholinergic receptor agonists and cholinesterase inhibitors, can antagonize the antimuscarinic actions of anticholinergic drugs, and vice versa.
Trimipramine: (Moderate) Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) may antagonize some of the effects of parasympathomimetics (e.g., cholinesterase inhibitors) due to their anticholinergic activity. However, parasympathomimetics like bethanechol have occasionally been used historically to offset some of the adverse peripheral antimuscarinic (anticholinergic) effects of TCAs, such as dry mouth, constipation, or urinary retention. For years, physostigmine was used as an adjunct to the treatment of TCA overdose; however, its efficacy was limited to addressing anticholinergic effects. Additionally, case reports suggest that harmful effects such as seizures and bradyarrhythmias progressing to asystole, especially in patients with cardiac conduction abnormalities at baseline, are possible. For these reasons, physostigmine is no longer considered a standard of care in the treatment of TCA overdose.
Trospium: (Moderate) Pharmacologically, parasympathomimetic drugs enhance muscarinic/cholinergic function. Because trospium is an antimuscarinic, the muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including direct cholinergic agonists, could be antagonized when used concomitantly with trospium.
Xanomeline; Trospium: (Moderate) Pharmacologically, parasympathomimetic drugs enhance muscarinic/cholinergic function. Because trospium is an antimuscarinic, the muscarinic actions of drugs known as parasympathomimetics, including direct cholinergic agonists, could be antagonized when used concomitantly with trospium.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  Bethanechol can produce abdominal pain or cramps, diarrhea, flatulence, nausea/vomiting, and borborygmi. These reactions result from increased tone and peristaltic activity in the stomach and intestines. Administer bethanechol on an empty stomach (i.e., 1 hour before or 2 hours after a meal) to minimize nausea and vomiting.Flushing and warmth of the skin, particularly about the face; diaphoresis; lacrimation; and hypersalivation are effects on the skin and glands that are mediated by acetylcholine, and thus are side effects of bethanechol.Cholinergic agonists have the potential to cause bronchospasm or wheezing. Bethanechol should be used cautiously in patients with asthma.Miosis is a frequent and classic side effect of cholinergic stimulation. In general, this effect is not harmful.Urinary urgency and increased urinary frequency are expected results of the treatment for urinary retention with bethanechol.Bethanechol may induce orthostatic hypotension with symptoms of dizziness or potential for syncope. Other reported side effects include blurred vision (visual impairment, difficulty in visual accommodation) headache, hypothermia, retrograde urine flow sometimes leading to infection, and a mild blood pressure decrease with reflex sinus tachycardia. A more precipitous drop in blood pressure can be seen in hypertensive patients. Seizures have also been reported (causal relationship unknown). Parenteral use of bethanechol can result in a severe cholinergic reaction, possibly causing vascular collapse, shock, and cardiac arrest.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    abdominal pain, borborygmi, diarrhea, flatulence, hypersalivation, nausea, vomiting
    General Information
    Bethanechol can produce abdominal pain or cramps, colicky pain, belching, hypersalivation, diarrhea, flatulence, nausea, vomiting, and borborygmi. These reactions result from increased tone and peristaltic activity in the stomach and intestines. Administer bethanechol on an empty stomach (i.e., 1 hour before or 2 hours after a meal) to minimize nausea and vomiting.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      borborygmi
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      flatulence
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      hypersalivation
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    diaphoresis, flushing
    General Information
    Flushing and warmth of the skin, particularly about the face, and diaphoresis, are side effects associate with the use of bethanechol.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      diaphoresis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      flushing
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    bronchospasm, wheezing
    General Information
    Cholinergic agonists such as bethanechol have the potential to cause bronchospasm or wheezing and should generally not be used in patients with asthma.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      bronchospasm
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      wheezing
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    lacrimation, miosis
    General Information
    Ophthalmic adverse effects associated with bethanechol use are secondary to cholinergic stimulation and include miosis and lacrimation.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      miosis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      lacrimation
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    increased urinary frequency, urinary urgency
    General Information
    Urinary urgency and increased urinary frequency are expected results of the treatment for urinary retention with bethanechol.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      increased urinary frequency
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      urinary urgency
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    sinus tachycardia
    General Information
    Cardiovascular adverse effects associated with bethanechol use include a mild blood pressure decrease with reflex sinus tachycardia. Vasomotor response has also been reported.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      sinus tachycardia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    dizziness, headache, malaise, seizures, syncope
    General Information
    Bethanechol may induce dizziness or potential for syncope, headache, seizures, and malaise.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      malaise
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      seizures
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      syncope
      Severity
      Minor

Description
  Text
  Bethanechol is a synthetic parasympathomimetic indicated for the treatment of urinary retention associated with neurogenic bladder. Bethanechol is currently used less frequently due to the availability of more effective agents. It is an old drug which has also been used to stimulate GI motility. However, the availability of metoclopramide and other prokinetic agents has decreased the use of bethanechol as a stimulant of GI motility. Bethanechol occasionally is used to increase lower esophageal pressure in the treatment of gastric reflux; however, its use is limited by cholinergic side effects such as diarrhea and abdominal cramping. Bethanechol has also been used to offset some of the bothersome anticholinergic reactions to tricyclic antidepressants. Bethanechol has negligible cardiovascular effects at therapeutic doses. Bethanechol was approved by the FDA in 1948.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Bethanechol is a synthetic muscarinic stimulant. It does not inactivate acetylcholinesterase. Bethanechol exerts its parasympathomimetic effects by a direct action on muscarinic (cholinergic) receptors, all of which can be antagonized by atropine. Bethanechol primarily affects the urinary and GI tracts. Its effect on the bladder results from stimulation of muscarinic receptors in the detrusor muscle. The detrusor contracts, decreasing bladder capacity and producing urination. Bethanechol also stimulates ureteral peristalsis and relaxes the trigone and external sphincter. Because bethanechol is a direct-acting agonist, spinal cord injury will not compromise these actions.
 
Stimulation of muscarinic receptors in the GI tract restores peristalsis, increases motility, and increases the resting lower esophageal sphincter pressure. Bethanechol also stimulates the lower GI tract, producing defecation. Bethanechol produces a much more vigorous response in denervated than in normal smooth muscle. It does not stimulate nicotinic receptors and is not degraded by acetylcholinesterase. Bethanechol is a preferred drug in the treatment of postpartum and postoperative nonobstructive urinary retention, and it also can counteract bladder dysfunction often seen with phenothiazines and tricyclic antidepressants.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Bethanechol poorly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract. Its oral bioavailability is unknown. Onset of action occurs within 30—90 minutes when taken orally. It is a short-acting drug; effects typically last 1 hour when taken orally.
    Name
    Subcutaneous Route
    Description
    Parenteral doses of bethanechol are much more potent than equivalent oral doses and should be administered cautiously. Onset of action occurs within 5—15 minutes when given subcutaneously. It is a short-acting drug; effects typically last 2 hours when taken subcutaneously.
  Text
  Bethanechol is administered orally and subcutaneously. After administration, the distribution of bethanechol is not well known. Due to its quaternary (i.e., charged) state, bethanechol does not penetrate the blood-brain barrier at therapeutic doses. Because it is not susceptible to degradation by acetylcholinesterase, bethanechol has a longer duration of action than endogenous acetylcholine. The mechanism of elimination is unknown.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Tablets
Preferably, administer when the stomach is empty. If taken soon after eating, nausea and vomiting may occur.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    200 mg/day PO (single maximum dose: 50 mg PO).
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    200 mg/day PO (single maximum dose: 50 mg PO).
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; the metabolic disposition of bethanechol is unknown.
  Renal Impairment
  No dosage adjustment needed.
