=== Allogeneic Regulatory T Cell Immunotherapy with HSPC and T Cells — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 5681)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Allogeneic regulatory T cell immunotherapy with hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells and T cells-vldq is indicated for adults with hematologic malignancies undergoing matched donor hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) with a myeloablative preparative regimen, for hematopoietic and...

Routes: intravenous; Common adult doses: NOTE: A single dose of allogeneic regulatory T cell immunotherapy with hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs) and T cells consists of HSPCs, regulatory T cells (Tregs), and conventional T cells (Tcons) with a Tcon diluent.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): elevated hepatic enzymes, sinusoidal obstruction syndrome, veno-occlusive disease, anemia, leukopenia, lymphopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. pregnancy There are no data on the use of allogeneic regulatory T cell immunotherapy with hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs) and T cells during pregnancy to evaluate for a...

ALLOGENEIC REGULATORY T CELL IMMUNOTHERAPY WITH HSPC AND T CELLS

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

TREGZI

Indication Specific Dosing

For use in matched donor hematopoietic stem cell transplant with a myeloablative preparative regimen in patients with hematologic malignancies for hematopoietic and immunologic reconstitution and to improve chronic graft-versus-host disease (cGVHD)-free survival

Intravenous dosage
Adults


A single dose consists of hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs), regulatory T cells (Tregs), and conventional T cells (Tcons) with a Tcon diluent provided in separate infusion bags labeled for the specific patient. On day 0, infuse HSPCs (target dose range, 1 x 10^6 viable cells/kg or greater) IV, followed immediately after by Tregs (target dose range, 1.3 to 3.5 x 10^6 viable cells/kg) IV. On day 2 or 3 (after the start of HSPC infusion on day 0), infuse Tcons (target dose range, 1.3 to 6.9 x 10^6 viable cells/kg) IV with Tcon diluent. Administer an appropriate myeloablative preparative regimen before the infusion. Administer with the recommended premedication. Follow treatment with a single agent calcineurin inhibitor as GVHD prophylaxis starting the day after Tcon administration. In a phase 3, open-label, randomized, controlled study (Precision-T) enrolling patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML), acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) and mixed-phenotype acute leukemia (MPAL), allogeneic regulatory T cell immunotherapy with HSPCs and T cells plus single agent tacrolimus (TAC) compared with a conventional allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant plus TAC/methotrexate was evaluated. The median cGVHD-free survival (cGFS) was not estimable in the experimental arm compared with 7.3 months in the control arm after a median follow up of 8.48 months and 9.03 months, respectively. The 12-month estimated cumulative incidence of moderate to severe cGVHD was 12.6% in the experimental arm versus 44% for the unmanipulated allograft control arm; the Kaplan-Meier estimate of cGFS at 12 months was 78% compared with 38.4%. All patients (n = 88) treated with allogeneic regulatory T cell immunotherapy with HSPCs and T cells achieved a neutrophil count of 500 cells/mm3 within 28 days of infusion. Of these patients, 60.2% had neutrophil counts above 500 cells/mm3 on 3 consecutive days, confirming neutrophil recovery within 28 days of infusion.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

pregnancy


There are no data on the use of allogeneic regulatory T cell immunotherapy with hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs) and T cells during pregnancy to evaluate for a treatment-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse pregnancy outcomes. Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted. Use allogeneic regulatory T cell immunotherapy with HSPCs and T cells during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential fetal risk. Report all pregnancies following treatment to Orca Bio at 1-877-411-6722.


reproductive risk


Counsel people who may become pregnant and people who can cause pregnancy in others about the potential reproductive risk associated with allogeneic regulatory T cell immunotherapy with hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs) and T cells. Verify pregnancy status prior to starting the conditioning regimen. There are insufficient data to provide a recommendation concerning the duration of contraception after treatment with allogeneic regulatory T cell immunotherapy with HSPCs and T cells. Follow the contraception recommendations provided for the myeloablative regimen. There are no data on the effect of allogeneic regulatory T cell immunotherapy with HSPCs and T cells on fertility.


breast-feeding


Use allogeneic regulatory T cell immunotherapy with hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs) and T cells with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of allogeneic regulatory T cell immunotherapy with HSPCs and T cells in human milk, its effects on the breastfed child, or its effects on milk production. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the patient's clinical need for treatment, and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from the treatment or from the patient's underlying medical condition.


Pregnancy And Lactation


There are no data on the use of allogeneic regulatory T cell immunotherapy with hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs) and T cells during pregnancy to evaluate for a treatment-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse pregnancy outcomes. Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted. Use allogeneic regulatory T cell immunotherapy with HSPCs and T cells during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential fetal risk. Report all pregnancies following treatment to Orca Bio at 1-877-411-6722.


Interactions

There are no drug interactions associated with Allogeneic Regulatory T Cell Immunotherapy with HSPC and T Cells products.

Adverse Reaction
graft failure


Graft failure has occurred after allogeneic regulatory T cell immunotherapy with hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs) and T cells administration. Screen recipients for antidonor antibodies that may prevent engraftment. Secondary graft failure (1%) was reported in patients treated with allogeneic regulatory T cell immunotherapy with HSPCs and T cells in a clinical trial.


graft-versus-host disease


Acute and chronic graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) have occurred after allogeneic regulatory T cell immunotherapy with hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs) and T cells administration. Treat patients with a single agent calcineurin inhibitor as prophylaxis to decrease the risk of GVHD. Acute GVDH (38%; grade 3 or higher, 6%) and moderate to severe chronic GVHD (13%) were reported in patients treated with allogeneic regulatory T cell immunotherapy with HSPCs and T cells in a clinical trial.


infusion-related reactions


Infusion-related reactions may occur during or following treatment with allogeneic regulatory T cell immunotherapy with hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs) and T cells. Serious hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis may occur due to DMSO, human serum albumin (HSA), Dextran or murine protein present in allogeneic regulatory T cell immunotherapy with HSPCs and T cells. Symptoms may occur within minutes of starting the infusion and intensify and peak several hours after the infusion; administer with the recommended premedication.


new primary malignancy, post-transplant lymphoproliferative disorder


Malignancy of donor origin has been reported following treatment with allogeneic regulatory T cell immunotherapy with hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs) and T cells. Development of a new primary malignancy including post-transplant lymphoproliferative disorder (PTLD) manifested as a lymphoma-like disease favoring non-nodal sites may occur many years after transplantation; consider serial blood monitoring of Epstein Barr virus DNA in patients with persistent cytopenias. Contact Orca Bio at 1-877-411-6722 if any patient is diagnosed with a secondary malignancy or a malignancy of donor origin.


infection


Transmission of serious infection or communicable disease or agents may occur with allogeneic regulatory T cell immunotherapy with hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs) and T cells therapy because it is derived from human donor blood and manufactured using animal-derived reagents. Risks of transmission of serious infections include, but are not limited to, human immunodeficiency virus, human T cell lymphotropic virus (HTLV)-1 and -2, hepatitis B virus, hepatitis C virus, Treponema pallidum, Trypanosoma cruzi, West Nile virus, cytomegalovirus, transmissible spongiform encephalopathy agents, and vaccinia. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of infections, perform tests for infectious agents, and treat as clinically indicated. Viral infections (51%; grade 3 or higher, 14%), pathogen unspecified infections (45%; grade 3 or higher, 18%), bacterial infections (40%; grade 3 or higher, 18%), pneumonia (grade 3 or higher, 5%), and fungal infections (20%; grade 3 or higher, 3%) were reported in patients treated with allogeneic regulatory T cell immunotherapy with HSPCs and T cells in a clinical trial.


abdominal pain, diarrhea, nausea, stomatitis, vomiting


Stomatitis (85%; grade 3 or higher, 28%), diarrhea (69%; grade 3 or higher, 1%), abdominal pain (45%), vomiting (44%; grade 3 or higher, 1%), and nausea (41%; grade 3 or higher, 1%) were reported in patients treated with allogeneic regulatory T cell immunotherapy with hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells and T cells in a clinical trial.


rash


Rash (65%) occurred in patients treated with allogeneic regulatory T cell immunotherapy with hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells and T cells in a clinical trial.


bleeding


Bleeding (39%; grade 3 or higher, 6%) was reported in patients treated with allogeneic regulatory T cell immunotherapy with hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells and T cells in a clinical trial.


edema


Edema (30%) occurred in patients treated with allogeneic regulatory T cell immunotherapy with hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells and T cells in a clinical trial.


fever


Fever, reported as a serious adverse reaction (5%) within the first 100 days, occurred in patients treated with allogeneic regulatory T cell immunotherapy with hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells and T cells in a clinical trial.


elevated hepatic enzymes, sinusoidal obstruction syndrome, veno-occlusive disease


Elevated hepatic enzymes, specifically increased ALT (grade 3 or 4, 12%), occurred in patients treated with allogeneic regulatory T cell immunotherapy with hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells and T cells in a clinical trial. Hepatic veno-occlusive disease/sinusoidal obstruction syndrome (3%) was also reported in this trial.


anemia, leukopenia, lymphopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia


Serious cytopenias, including lymphopenia, thrombocytopenia, leukopenia, neutropenia, and anemia occurred in patients treated with allogeneic regulatory T cell immunotherapy with hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells and T cells in a clinical trial. Grade 3 or 4 cell counts that decreased from baseline, assessed prior to conditioning regimen, included lymphocytes (98%), platelets (93%), leukocytes (89%), neutrophils (77%), and hemoglobin (71%).


Description

Allogeneic regulatory T cell immunotherapy with hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells and T cells-vldq is indicated for adults with hematologic malignancies undergoing matched donor hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) with a myeloablative preparative regimen, for hematopoietic and immunologic reconstitution and to improve chronic graft-versus-host disease (GVHD)-free survival. Graft failure, GVHD, infusion reactions, and malignancy of donor origin have been reported. Transmission of infectious or communicable disease or agents may occur with allogeneic regulatory T cell immunotherapy with hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells and T cells because it is derived from human donor blood and manufactured using animal-derived reagents. It was approved by the FDA in June 2026.

Mechanism Of Action

Allogeneic regulatory T cell immunotherapy with hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs) and T cells is isolated from the mobilized peripheral blood of a donor HLA-matched to the recipient, and administered after appropriate cytoreductive conditioning. Allogeneic regulatory T cell immunotherapy with HSPCs and T cells contains HSPCs, purified regulatory T cells (Tregs) and conventional T cells (Tcons).
Tregs are administered prior to Tcons to control graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) and promote immune reconstitution. Nonclinical studies have shown that Tregs suppress Tcon activation and proliferation in secondary lymphoid organs and GVHD target organs, and improve immune reconstitution without compromising graft-versus-tumor effects of Tcons. The immunosuppressive activity of Tregs occurs through various immunoregulatory mechanisms, which help preserve immune function and decrease severity of GVHD. Tcons are administered approximately 2 days later to accelerate immune reconstitution, characterized by the complete or partial restoration of peripheral blood T-cell counts. Immune reconstitution is thought to result in graft-versus-infection and graft-versus-leukemia effects.
The HSPCs engraft, self-renew, proliferate, and differentiate into all mature blood cells. The mature cells are released from the bone marrow, circulate in the blood stream, and migrate to tissue sites, restoring blood counts and hematopoietic function.

Pharmacokinetics

Allogeneic regulatory T cell immunotherapy with hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells and T cells is administered intravenously. No studies have been conducted to evaluate the pharmacokinetics of this product.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
NOTE: Allogeneic regulatory T cell immunotherapy with hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs) and T cells contains human blood cells and may carry the risk of transmitting infectious diseases to health care professionals handling the product. Follow universal precautions for handling and disposal to avoid potential transmission of infectious diseases.
Premedication
Administer diphenhydramine and/or acetaminophen approximately 30 minutes before HSPC and Tcon infusions per institutional guidance.
The use of corticosteroids as premedication is strongly discouraged.
Recommended Prophylaxis
Treat patients with a single agent calcineurin inhibitor as prophylaxis to decrease the risk of graft-versus-host disease starting the day after Tcon administration.


Injectable Administration

Visually inspect the infusion bags for any breaks or cracks upon receipt. If an infusion bag is compromised, follow the institutional procedures for handling, storage and disposal and contact Orca Bio at 1-877-411-6722.

Intravenous Administration


Do not irradiate allogeneic regulatory T cell immunotherapy with HSPCs and T cells.
A single dose of allogeneic regulatory T cell immunotherapy with HSPCs and T cells consists of HSPCs, regulatory T cells (Tregs), conventional T cells (Tcons), and Tcon diluent provided in 4 separate infusion bags labeled for the specific patient. Each patient-specific infusion bag contains a batch-dependent concentration of allogeneic cells. Patient-specific dose information can be found within the Certificate of Analysis (COA).
Do NOT open the Tcon metal cassette upon receipt. Only open the metal cassette to verify the patient identifiers and inspect the Tcon infusion bag immediately prior to thawing.
Match the identity of the patient with the patient identifiers on the carton and infusion bags containing the HSPC and Tregs, on the metal cassette containing the Tcon infusion bag, and on the carton and infusion bags containing the Tcon diluent. If the information on the patient-specific label does not match the intended patient, do NOT infuse product and contact Orca Bio at 1-877-411-6722.
Monitor for infusion reactions during and after administration.
Preparation of HSPCs and Tregs for Infusion (Day 0)
Confirm the patient's identity matches the patient identifiers on each of the HSPC and Treg infusion bags. Do NOT infuse the HSPCs and Tregs if the information on the patient-specific label does not match the intended patient.
Remove the HSPCs and Treg infusion bags from refrigerated storage immediately prior to infusion.
Agitate each infusion bag by inverting or gently massaging to prevent cell clumping. If visible cell clumping remains, continue to disperse clumps per institutional guidance prior to infusion.
Administration of HSPC and Tregs (Day 0)
Central venous catheter access is recommended.
Prime the tubing with 0.9% Sodium Chloride.
Do NOT use a leukodepleting filter.
Infuse the entire contents of HSPC infusion bag (step 1 of administration) by either gravity or a peristaltic pump at a rate of up to 5 mL/minute. After the infusion, add approximately 10 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride to the empty infusion bag and administer at the same infusion rate per institutional guidance. Repeat this process to achieve a total of 2 rinses.
Infuse the entire contents of the Treg infusion bag (step 2 of administration) by either gravity or a peristaltic pump at a rate of up to 5 mL/minute immediately after the HSPC infusion and rinses. After infusion, add approximately 10 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride to the empty infusion bag and administer at the same infusion rate per institutional guidance. Repeat this process to achieve a total of 2 rinses.
 
Preparation of Tcons (Day 2 or Day 3)
Thawing of Tcons (step 3a of administration)
Tcons are supplied cryopreserved in an infusion bag that is protected by a corresponding overwrap bag and packed in a metal cassette. Patient identifiers are found on the cassette and infusion bag labels. Do NOT open the metal cassette until immediately before thawing.
Confirm the patient's identity matches the patient identifiers on the Tcon and Tcon diluent infusion bags. Do NOT infuse the Tcons if the information on the patient-specific label does not match the intended patient.
Refrigerate the Tcon diluent infusion bag at 2 to 8 degrees C for at least 30 minutes prior to removing the Tcon metal cassette from liquid nitrogen storage.
Remove Tcon metal cassette from liquid nitrogen storage.
Open the protective cassette and remove the Tcon infusion bag. Remove the Tcon infusion bag from the overwrap bag.
Place Tcon infusion bag in a sterile plastic bag and seal the bag tightly.
Place the sealed plastic bag in a 37 degree C water bath for approximately 1 to 1.5 minutes until the cell suspension is slushy in texture. Gently massage the Tcon infusion bag during thawing.
Remove the sealed bag from the water bath and remove the Tcon infusion bag. Discard outer plastic bag.
Wipe down the Tcon infusion bag with 70% isopropanol.
Dilution of Tcons with Tcon diluent (step 3b of administration)
Remove the Tcon diluent infusion bag from refrigeration.
Using a dispensing pin and syringe or transfer set with gravity, slowly transfer the contents of the Tcon diluent infusion bag over a period of 3 minutes into the Tcon infusion bag while rocking it back and forth during transfer to mix.
Store the Tcon infusion bag at room temperature (18 to 25 degrees C) if administering immediately or store at 2 to 8 degrees C and infuse within 4 hours if not using immediately.
Gently agitate each infusion bag by inverting or gently massaging immediately prior to infusion to prevent cell clumping per institutional guidance. If visible cell clumping remains, continue to disperse clumps by gentle massaging per institutional guidance prior to infusion.
Administration of Tcons (Day 2 or Day 3)
Central venous catheter access is recommended.
Prime the tubing with 0.9% Sodium Chloride.
Do NOT use a leukodepleting filter.
Infuse the entire contents of the Tcon infusion bag by either gravity or a peristaltic pump at a rate of up to 5 mL/minute. After the infusion, add approximately 10 mL of 0.9% sodium chloride to the empty infusion bag and administer at the same infusion rate per institutional guidance. Repeat this process to achieve a total of 2 rinses.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

NOTE: A single dose of allogeneic regulatory T cell immunotherapy with hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs) and T cells consists of HSPCs, regulatory T cells (Tregs), and conventional T cells (Tcons) with a Tcon diluent.
HSPC: 1 x 10^6 viable cells/kg or greater IV is the target dose range; maximum dose has not been determined.
Tregs: 3.5 x 10^6 viable cells/kg IV
Tcons: 6.9 x 10^6 viable cells/kg IV
Tcon diluent: 30 mL IV

Geriatric

NOTE: A single dose of allogeneic regulatory T cell immunotherapy with hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs) and T cells consists of HSPCs, regulatory T cells (Tregs), and conventional T cells (Tcons) with a Tcon diluent.
HSPC: 1 x 10^6 viable cells/kg or greater IV is the target dose range; maximum dose has not been determined.
Tregs: 3.5 x 10^6 viable cells/kg IV
Tcons: 6.9 x 10^6 viable cells/kg IV
Tcon diluent: 30 mL IV

Adolescents

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Children

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

Renal Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

© 2026 Elsevier