=== Hawthorn (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 2223)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Hawthorn is a herb whose use in medicine for the treatment of heart conditions dates back to the 17th century.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: Dosage Description

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): anaphylactoid reactions, contact dermatitis, pruritus, rash (unspecified), arrhythmia exacerbation, dizziness, drowsiness, hypotension, palpitations, syncope

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Hawthorn has not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. Products containing hawthorn are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease.

Dosage Forms
  - Hawthorn Berries 1080mg Capsule
  - Hawthorn Berries Capsule
  - Hawthorn Premium Extract 300mg Capsule
  - Radiance Hawthorn Berries 565mg Capsule

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage (oral dosage forms containing aqueous-ethanol dried extract)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        Hawthorn products meeting the German Commission E standardized criteria do not yet exist in the US, therefore a precise dosage cannot be recommended. The German Commission E recommends a dosage of 160—900 mg/day PO of native, aqueous-alcoholic extract divided in 2—3 equal doses. This dosage predicated on the use of a standardized water-ethanol extract of hawthorn leaf and flower (ethanol 45% v/v or methanol 70% v/v; with a drug-extract ratio of 4—7:1 with defined flavonoid or procyanidin content), corresponding to 18% procyanidins or 2.2% flavonoids.
      Heading
      Oral dosage (Faros 300, not available in the US)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        Take 1 tablet (300 mg) PO 3 times daily with meals, followed by a glass of fluid. Controlled, open label studies in Germany in 78 patients with NYHA class II heart failure suggested that a dosage of 600 mg PO daily in divided doses resulted in subjective improvements in symptoms such as shortness of breath, fatigue, and exercise tolerance. Lower blood pressure and heart rates were noted during aerobic exercise.
    Heading
    For the treatment of New York Heart Association (NYHA) functional class II heart failure†

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Hawthorn has not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. Products containing hawthorn are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease. Consumers should also be informed that rigid quality control standards are not required for nutraceuticals and substantial variability can occur in both the potency and the purity of these products.Hawthorn is not recommended for use in children due to a lack of data supporting its safety and efficacy in this age group.Hawthorn should not be used during pregnancy or breast-feeding.The Commission E recommends consultation by a physician prior to use if the patient has known cardiac disease. A prescriber should also be consulted if the patient exhibits symptoms suggestive of cardiac disease including the following: edema, dyspnea, chest pain, or cardiac symptoms that occur during rest. Patients with known cardiac conditions or hypertension who are taking prescription medicine should check with their prescribers before use. Patients with a history of QT prolongation should not use hawthorn; hawthorn appears to have pharmacologic properties similar to traditional class III antiarrythmics on the myocardium and could potentially worsen QT prolongation syndromes and lead to cardiac arrhythmias.No phytomedicinal is as effective as nitrates, beta-blockers, and calcium-channel blockers for the treatment of angina; therefore, herbal products such as hawthorn should never be used to treat acute angina. A qualified health care prescriber should be consulted before using hawthorn in addition to prescribed anti-anginal medications.There is no data available regarding the use of hawthorn in patients with renal disease, renal impairment, or hepatic disease. Until more is known about the pharmacokinetics of this herb, caution should be used when hawthorn is administered to these patient populations, particularly those with renal failure.Prior to undergoing surgery, the surgeon and anesthesiologist should be notified of the use of hawthorn. In many cases, it is unknown what effects herbal medicines may have on surgical procedures, and some herbal products have been reported to induce changes in heart rate or blood pressure during surgery, or intensify the effects of narcotic drugs and anesthetic agents. It may be wise to discontinue this herb 2—3 weeks prior to an elective procedure, when possible.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    This product has not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration for safety and efficacy and is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease.
    Headline
    cardiac disease, QT prolongation
    General Information
    Use hawthorn with caution in patients with known or suspected cardiac disease, including arrhythmias, heart failure, or vascular conditions. Patients with a history of QT prolongation should avoid use of hawthorn, as it exhibits Class III-like antiarrhythmic properties and may prolong the QT interval, potentially increasing the risk of torsades de pointes or producing additive effects with other antiarrhythmic therapies.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    It is unknown if hawthorn is safe to use in pregnant patients. There are no human data regarding the safety or efficacy of this supplement during pregnancy or its effect on a developing fetus.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use hawthorn with caution in breast-feeding patients. There are no data regarding the safety or efficacy of hawthorn in breast-feeding individuals, the presence of this supplement in milk, or its effect on breast-fed infants.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    It is unknown if hawthorn is safe to use in pregnant patients. There are no human data regarding the safety or efficacy of this supplement during pregnancy or its effect on a developing fetus.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use hawthorn with caution in breast-feeding patients. There are no data regarding the safety or efficacy of hawthorn in breast-feeding individuals, the presence of this supplement in milk, or its effect on breast-fed infants.

Interactions
Acebutolol: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the beta-blockers. Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring.
amLODIPine: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the calcium-channel blockers. Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the calcium-channel blockers. Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring. (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the calcium-channel blockers. Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the calcium-channel blockers. Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the calcium-channel blockers. Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring. (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents like the angiotensin II receptor antagonists may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the calcium-channel blockers. Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring. (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents like the angiotensin II receptor antagonists may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the calcium-channel blockers. Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring. (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents like the angiotensin II receptor antagonists may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring. (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring.
Angiotensin II receptor antagonists: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents like the angiotensin II receptor antagonists may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
Atenolol: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the beta-blockers. Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the beta-blockers. Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring. (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring.
Azilsartan: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents like the angiotensin II receptor antagonists may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents like the angiotensin II receptor antagonists may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring. (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring.
Benazepril: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring. (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring.
Beta-adrenergic blockers: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the beta-blockers. Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
Betaxolol: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the beta-blockers. Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
Bisoprolol: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the beta-blockers. Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the beta-blockers. Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring. (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the beta-blockers. Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
Bumetanide: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring.
Calcium-channel blockers: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the calcium-channel blockers. Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
Candesartan: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents like the angiotensin II receptor antagonists may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents like the angiotensin II receptor antagonists may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring. (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring.
Captopril: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring. (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring.
Carteolol: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the beta-blockers. Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the beta-blockers. Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
Chlorothiazide: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring.
Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring.
Class IA Antiarrhythmics: (Major) It would be prudent to avoid use of Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxycantha) during therapy with antiarrhythmic agents whenever possible, due to the possibility of additive effects on cardiac conduction and the known effects of antiarrhythmic drugs on the heart. Following hawthorn administration to guinea pigs, the cardiac action potential duration was increased and the refractory period was prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn could potentially interact with antiarrhythmics that have similar actions to hawthorn on cardiac electrophysiology. Use extreme caution with class IA antiarrhythmics, due to the potential for QT prolongation. However, no human clinical data are available. Patients should be advised to only use hawthorn with these antiarrhythmic agents after discussion with their prescriber. If co-use is advised, patients should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
Class IC Antiarrhythmics: (Major) It would be prudent to avoid use of Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxycantha) during therapy with antiarrhythmic agents whenever possible, due to the possibility of additive effects on cardiac conduction and the known effects of antiarrhythmic drugs on the heart. Following hawthorn administration to guinea pigs, the cardiac action potential duration was increased and the refractory period was prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn could potentially interact with antiarrhythmics that have similar actions to hawthorn on cardiac electrophysiology. Use extreme caution with class IC antiarrhythmics, due to the potential for QT prolongation. However, no human clinical data are available. Patients should be advised to only use hawthorn with these antiarrhythmic agents after discussion with their prescriber. If co-use is advised, patients should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
Clevidipine: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the calcium-channel blockers. Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Major) It would be prudent to avoid use of Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxycantha) during therapy with antiarrhythmic agents whenever possible, due to the possibility of additive effects on cardiac conduction and the known effects of antiarrhythmic drugs on the heart. Following hawthorn administration to guinea pigs, the cardiac action potential duration was increased and the refractory period was prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn could potentially interact with antiarrhythmics that have similar actions to hawthorn on cardiac electrophysiology. Use extreme caution with class IA antiarrhythmics, due to the potential for QT prolongation. However, no human clinical data are available. Patients should be advised to only use hawthorn with these antiarrhythmic agents after discussion with their prescriber. If co-use is advised, patients should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
Diazoxide: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with vasodilators may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring.
Digoxin: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxycantha) may potentiate the effects of the cardiac glycosides (i.e., digoxin) through a pharmacodynamic interaction. Clinically, hawthorn is reported to be commonly used in conjunction with digoxin in European communities in patients with heart failure (usually NYHA class 2 or milder). The pharmacokinetic effect of hawthorn on digoxin has been evaluated. In a small cross-over study in 8 volunteers, researchers evaluated digoxin 0.25 mg/day PO alone and digoxin 0.25 mg/day PO administered with Crataegus commercial extract WS1442 (Schwabe Pharmaceuticals, dose 450 mg PO twice daily). Following 3 weeks of concomitant therapy, hawthorn did not significantly alter any pharmacokinetic parameters of digoxin. The authors suggested that both hawthorn and digoxin, in the doses and dosage form studied, may be coadministered safely. However, it is prudent to recommend close clinical observation if digoxin is administered concurrently with hawthorn, due to the potential enhanced effects, and the wide variability in the potency and purity of herbal products. Patients should be advised to only use hawthorn with digoxin after discussion with their prescriber. Monitor the patients heart rate and blood pressure, and for symptoms of digoxin toxicity.
dilTIAZem: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the calcium-channel blockers. Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
Disopyramide: (Major) It would be prudent to avoid use of Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxycantha) during therapy with antiarrhythmic agents whenever possible, due to the possibility of additive effects on cardiac conduction and the known effects of antiarrhythmic drugs on the heart. Following hawthorn administration to guinea pigs, the cardiac action potential duration was increased and the refractory period was prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn could potentially interact with antiarrhythmics that have similar actions to hawthorn on cardiac electrophysiology. Use extreme caution with class IA antiarrhythmics, due to the potential for QT prolongation. However, no human clinical data are available. Patients should be advised to only use hawthorn with these antiarrhythmic agents after discussion with their prescriber. If co-use is advised, patients should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the beta-blockers. Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
Doxazosin: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring.
Enalapril, Enalaprilat: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring. (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring.
Esmolol: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the beta-blockers. Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
Ethacrynic Acid: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring.
Felodipine: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the calcium-channel blockers. Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
Fenoldopam: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with vasodilators may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring.
Flecainide: (Major) It would be prudent to avoid use of Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxycantha) during therapy with antiarrhythmic agents whenever possible, due to the possibility of additive effects on cardiac conduction and the known effects of antiarrhythmic drugs on the heart. Following hawthorn administration to guinea pigs, the cardiac action potential duration was increased and the refractory period was prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn could potentially interact with antiarrhythmics that have similar actions to hawthorn on cardiac electrophysiology. Use extreme caution with class IC antiarrhythmics, due to the potential for QT prolongation. However, no human clinical data are available. Patients should be advised to only use hawthorn with these antiarrhythmic agents after discussion with their prescriber. If co-use is advised, patients should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
Fosinopril: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring. (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring.
Furosemide: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring.
hydrALAZINE: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with vasodilators may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring.
hydrALAZINE; Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxycantha) may potentially interact with nitrates. Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with known cardiovascular conditions should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring. (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with vasodilators may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring. (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring.
Irbesartan: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents like the angiotensin II receptor antagonists may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents like the angiotensin II receptor antagonists may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring. (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring.
Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxycantha) may potentially interact with nitrates. Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with known cardiovascular conditions should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
Isosorbide Mononitrate: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxycantha) may potentially interact with nitrates. Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with known cardiovascular conditions should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
Isradipine: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the calcium-channel blockers. Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
Labetalol: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the beta-blockers. Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
Landiolol: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the beta-blockers. Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
Levamlodipine: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the calcium-channel blockers. Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
Levobunolol: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the beta-blockers. Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
Lisinopril: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring. (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring.
Loop diuretics: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring.
Losartan: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents like the angiotensin II receptor antagonists may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents like the angiotensin II receptor antagonists may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring. (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring.
metOLazone: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring.
Metoprolol: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the beta-blockers. Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the beta-blockers. Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring. (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring.
Minoxidil: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with vasodilators may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring.
Moexipril: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
Nadolol: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the beta-blockers. Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
Nebivolol: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the beta-blockers. Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
NiCARdipine: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the calcium-channel blockers. Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
NIFEdipine: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the calcium-channel blockers. Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
niMODipine: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the calcium-channel blockers. Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
Nisoldipine: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the calcium-channel blockers. Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
Nitrates: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxycantha) may potentially interact with nitrates. Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with known cardiovascular conditions should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
Nitroglycerin: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxycantha) may potentially interact with nitrates. Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with known cardiovascular conditions should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
Nitroprusside: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with vasodilators may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring.
Olmesartan: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents like the angiotensin II receptor antagonists may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the calcium-channel blockers. Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring. (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents like the angiotensin II receptor antagonists may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring. (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents like the angiotensin II receptor antagonists may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring. (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring.
Perindopril: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring. (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the calcium-channel blockers. Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
Pindolol: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the beta-blockers. Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
Procainamide: (Major) It would be prudent to avoid use of Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxycantha) during therapy with antiarrhythmic agents whenever possible, due to the possibility of additive effects on cardiac conduction and the known effects of antiarrhythmic drugs on the heart. Following hawthorn administration to guinea pigs, the cardiac action potential duration was increased and the refractory period was prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn could potentially interact with antiarrhythmics that have similar actions to hawthorn on cardiac electrophysiology. Use extreme caution with class IA antiarrhythmics, due to the potential for QT prolongation. However, no human clinical data are available. Patients should be advised to only use hawthorn with these antiarrhythmic agents after discussion with their prescriber. If co-use is advised, patients should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
Propafenone: (Major) It would be prudent to avoid use of Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxycantha) during therapy with antiarrhythmic agents whenever possible, due to the possibility of additive effects on cardiac conduction and the known effects of antiarrhythmic drugs on the heart. Following hawthorn administration to guinea pigs, the cardiac action potential duration was increased and the refractory period was prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn could potentially interact with antiarrhythmics that have similar actions to hawthorn on cardiac electrophysiology. Use extreme caution with class IC antiarrhythmics, due to the potential for QT prolongation. However, no human clinical data are available. Patients should be advised to only use hawthorn with these antiarrhythmic agents after discussion with their prescriber. If co-use is advised, patients should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the beta-blockers. Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
Quinapril: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring. (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring.
quiNIDine: (Major) It would be prudent to avoid use of Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxycantha) during therapy with antiarrhythmic agents whenever possible, due to the possibility of additive effects on cardiac conduction and the known effects of antiarrhythmic drugs on the heart. Following hawthorn administration to guinea pigs, the cardiac action potential duration was increased and the refractory period was prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn could potentially interact with antiarrhythmics that have similar actions to hawthorn on cardiac electrophysiology. Use extreme caution with class IA antiarrhythmics, due to the potential for QT prolongation. However, no human clinical data are available. Patients should be advised to only use hawthorn with these antiarrhythmic agents after discussion with their prescriber. If co-use is advised, patients should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
Ramipril: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
Sacubitril; Valsartan: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents like the angiotensin II receptor antagonists may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring.
Telmisartan: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents like the angiotensin II receptor antagonists may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the calcium-channel blockers. Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring. (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents like the angiotensin II receptor antagonists may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the calcium-channel blockers. Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring. (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents like the angiotensin II receptor antagonists may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents like the angiotensin II receptor antagonists may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring. (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring.
Terazosin: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring.
Thiazide diuretics: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring.
Timolol: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the beta-blockers. Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
Torsemide: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring.
Trandolapril: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring. (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the calcium-channel blockers. Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring.
Valsartan: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents like the angiotensin II receptor antagonists may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents like the angiotensin II receptor antagonists may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring. (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with antihypertensive agents may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring.
Vasodilators: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata may lower peripheral vascular resistance. Hawthorn use in combination with vasodilators may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients receiving hawthorn concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring.
Verapamil: (Moderate) Hawthorn, Crataegus laevigata (also known as C. oxyacantha) may potentially interact with antihypertensive, heart failure, or arrhythmia medications such as the calcium-channel blockers. Following hawthorn administration, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may also lower peripheral vascular resistance. Patients with hypertension or heart failure should be advised to only use hawthorn with their prescribed medications after discussion with their prescriber. Patients who choose to take hawthorn should receive periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  NOTE: Some hawthorn preparations may contain combinations of several herbs. Only adverse reactions pertaining to hawthorn are discussed in this monograph.The clinician should be aware that adverse reactions to herbal products are not always reported. Because hawthorn is derived from a plant, allergic and anaphylactoid reactions are possible and may include bronchospasm, pruritus, and rash (unspecified). At least one case report has described immediate-type hypersensitivity; contact dermatitis is also reported from plant cultivation.Available clinical studies from Germany indicate that hawthorn rarely causes serious reactions in short-term use ( i.e., 8 weeks). Based on toxicologic studies and the pharmacology of hawthorn, potential adverse reactions could include drowsiness/sedation, hypotension, or arrhythmia exacerbation. Nausea/vomiting is infrequent. Dizziness, headache, palpitations, syncope, and falls have been reported with use of hawthorn in the US FDA special nutritional adverse event monitoring system, but patients affected have also been taking other herbal products or medications concurrently.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    NOTE: Some hawthorn preparations may contain combinations of several herbs. Only adverse reactions pertaining to hawthorn are discussed in this monograph.
    Headline
    anaphylactoid reactions, contact dermatitis, pruritus, rash (unspecified)
    General Information
    The clinician should be aware that adverse reactions to herbal products are not always reported. Because hawthorn is derived from a plant, allergic and anaphylactoid reactions are possible and may include bronchospasm, pruritus, and rash (unspecified). At least one case report has described immediate-type hypersensitivity; contact dermatitis is also reported from plant cultivation.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      contact dermatitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    arrhythmia exacerbation, dizziness, drowsiness, hypotension, nausea, palpitations, syncope, vomiting
    General Information
    Available clinical studies from Germany indicate that hawthorn rarely causes serious reactions in short-term use (i.e., 8 weeks). Based on toxicologic studies and the pharmacology of hawthorn, potential adverse reactions could include drowsiness/sedation, hypotension, or arrhythmia exacerbation. Nausea/vomiting is infrequent. Dizziness, headache, palpitations, syncope, and falls have been reported with use of hawthorn in the US FDA special nutritional adverse event monitoring system, but patients affected have also been taking other herbal products or medications concurrently.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      arrhythmia exacerbation
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      palpitations
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      syncope
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor

Description
  Text
  Hawthorn is a herb whose use in medicine for the treatment of heart conditions dates back to the 17th century. Hawthorn is obtained from the leaves, flowers, and/or fruit of Crataegus spp.: C. laevigata, also known as C. oxyacantha, and C. monogyna of the family Rosaceae. The plant has been cultivated since ancient times, and is indigenous to Europe, North America, and Africa. Clinical studies in Europe of the proprietary LI 132 (Faros 300) and WS 1442 hawthorn extracts have demonstrated evidence of symptomatic improvements in blood pressure, edema, fatigue, heart rate, and exercise tolerance in patients with mild cardiac insufficiency, defined as New York Heart Association (NYHA) functional class II. The actions of hawthorn are reported to develop very slowly with chronic use; it may take 4 to 6 weeks to see full clinical effect. No comparative data are available to assess the efficacy of hawthorn as compared to digoxin; hawthorn was reported to be as beneficial to stress tolerance as captopril in one double-blind German trial. Germany's Commission E has approved selected standardized extracts of the combination of hawthorn leaf and flower for NYHA functional class II heart failure. Due to lack of trials maintaining standards of good clinical practices (GCP), other cardiac indications for hawthorn, such as the treatment of angina or arrhythmias, cannot be supported at this time. Many specialists caution against self-medication with hawthorn for any cardiac condition, and a prescription and observation by a health care professional is recommended. In the U.S., hawthorn is regulated as an herbal dietary supplement and is not FDA-approved for any medical use.
 
NOTE: In the U.S., herbal products and dietary supplements are marketed under the Dietary Supplement and Health Education Act of 1994 (DSHEA). Consequently, scientific data supporting claimed benefit(s) are not always available for dietary supplements as they are for traditional pharmaceuticals since supplements are not regulated as drugs. Consumers should also note that rigid quality control standards are not required for these products and substantial variability can occur in both the potency and the purity of these products.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  The principal activity of hawthorn is attributed to oligomeric procyanidins (OPCs) derived from either catechin or epicatechin; the flavonoids quercetin, rutin, hyperoside, vitexin, and vitexin rhamnoside are also active. Like other supplements that contain OPCs, hawthorn is touted for antioxidant activities that are proposed to be circulatory system protective and to reduce the risk of atherosclerosis. In vitro data of rats fed an atherogenic diet showed that a tincture of hawthorn increased LDL-receptor activity in hepatic tissues, reduced cholesterol biosynthesis, and enhanced cholesterol degradation to bile acids. However, clinical human data to support arthrosclerotic plaque prevention are lacking at this time.
 
Hawthorn appears to cause coronary vasodilation and decreased peripheral resistance by a direct effect on arteriolar smooth muscle ; lowered blood pressure has been observed. Hawthorn also demonstrates positive inotropic, dromotropic and chronotropic effects. Based on animal data, the positive inotropic and chronotropic actions of hawthorn may result from the inhibition of 3',5'-cyclic adenosine monophosphate (AMP) phosphodiesterase. Studies of cardiac conduction in animals have shown that hawthorn extract also blocks repolarizing potassium currents in ventricular muscle; the effect is similar to the action of class III antiarrhythmic agents (e.g., amiodarone). Following hawthorn administration to guinea pigs, the cardiac action potential duration is increased and the refractory period is prolonged. Hawthorn may enhance the activity of digoxin based on limited data. Hawthorn also inhibits the biosynthesis of thromboxane A2 in vitro.

Pharmacokinetics
  Text
  Precise pharmacokinetic parameters for hawthorn are not available at this time, as standardized hawthorn extracts meeting the specifications of the German Commission E are not available in the US. Pharmacokinetic data on non-standardized extracts of Crataegus species are referenced in the literature.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Hawthorn is recommended to be administered with meals at regular intervals.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Text
  No specific maximum dosage information is available.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available. It is unknown if dosage adjustments are needed.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available. It is unknown if dosage adjustments are needed.
