=== Indapamide (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 312)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Indapamide is an oral antihypertensive and diuretic.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 5 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): glycosuria, hyperglycemia, hypochloremia, hypokalemia, palpitations, premature ventricular contractions (pvcs), hypercalcemia, hyperuricemia, hypophosphatemia, azotemia, increased urinary frequency, interstitial nephritis, nocturia, polyuria, agitation, anxiety, depression, dizziness, drowsiness, fatigue, headache, hypertonia, impotence (erectile dysfunction), insomnia, irritability, libido decrease, malaise, muscle cramps, paresthesias, vertigo

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: According to the manufacturer, indapamide is specifically contraindicated in patients with sulfonamide hypersensitivity. Although thiazide-type diuretics such as indapamide are sulfonamide derivatives, sulfonamide cross-sensitivity has been rarely documented.

Brand Names
  - Lozol

Dosage Forms
  - Indapamide 1.25mg Oral tablet
  - Indapamide 2.5mg Oral tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        2.5 mg PO once daily, initially. Increase the dose to 5 mg PO once daily after 1 week if the response in inadequate. Doses more than 5 mg have not appeared to provide additional benefits and are associated with a greater degree of hypokalemia. Guidelines recommend reserving the addition of a thiazide diuretic to treatment with a loop diuretic for persons with heart failure and congestive symptoms who do not respond to moderate- or high-dose loop diuretics to minimize electrolyte abnormalities.
    Heading
    For the treatment of heart failure
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        1.25 mg PO once daily, initially. May double dose every 4 weeks if further control is needed. Max: 5 mg/day. If the response to 2.5 mg/day is not satisfactory after 4 weeks, may increase the dose but adding another antihypertensive should be considered. Doses more than 5 mg/day have not appeared to provide additional effects and are associated with a greater degree of hypokalemia. A thiazide-type diuretic is recommended as initial monotherapy in stage 1 hypertension or as part of an initial 2 drug combination for stage 1 hypertension in high risk individuals or stage 2 hypertension. In the general black population without heart failure or chronic kidney disease, including those with diabetes, guidelines recommend initial antihypertensive treatment with a thiazide-type diuretic.
    Heading
    For the treatment of hypertension

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  According to the manufacturer, indapamide is specifically contraindicated in patients with sulfonamide hypersensitivity. Although thiazide-type diuretics such as indapamide are sulfonamide derivatives, sulfonamide cross-sensitivity has been rarely documented. Until further data are available, indapamide should be used with caution in patients with sulfonamide hypersensitivity. Indapamide does not contain the N4-aromatic amine or the N1-substituent which are present in sulfonamide antibiotics. Non-arylamine sulfonamide derivatives, such as indapamide, have been proposed to have a lower risk of allergic reactions in patients with sulfonamide allergy, presumably due to lack of an arylamine group at the N4 position (a proposed structural site of action for sulfonamide allergy). One large retrospective cohort study has reported that in patients with the presence of an allergic reaction after exposure to a sulfonamide antibiotic, 9.9% had an allergic reaction after receiving a non-antibiotic sulfonamide derivative, while in patients who lacked an allergic reaction after sulfonamide antibiotic exposure, 1.6% had an allergic reaction after administration of a non-antibiotic sulfonamide derivative (adjusted odds ratio 2.8; 95% CI, 2.1—3.7). A causal relationship between sulfonamide hypersensitivity and allergic reactions with non-arylamine sulfonamide derivatives has not been definitively established and remains controversial. In general, patients with a documented sulfonamide allergy are considered to be predisposed for development of allergic drug reactions.
 
Indapamide should be used with caution in patients with thyroid disease. Indapamide can decrease serum protein-bound iodine levels without directly affecting thyroid function.
 
Electrolyte imbalance should be corrected prior to the administration of indapamide. Patients receiving indapamide should be monitored closely for signs of electrolyte imbalance including hyponatremia, hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, and/or hypochloremia. Thiazide diuretics may induce metabolic alkalosis associated with hypokalemia and hypochloremia; this acid/base imbalance is effectively treated with potassium chloride replacement. In addition, indapamide should be used with caution in patients with parathyroid disease. Although altered serum calcium or phosphate levels have not been reported in patients receiving indapamide, these changes have occurred in patients receiving thiazide diuretics and should be considered a possibility during indapamide therapy as well.
 
Patients with pre-existing hypovolemia or hypotension should have their condition corrected before diuretics are initiated. Orthostatic hypotension may occur during treatment with thiazide diuretics like indapamide. Orthostatic hypotension can be exacerbated by concurrent use of alcohol, narcotics, or antihypertensive drugs (see Drug Interactions). Excessive hypotension during thiazide diuretic therapy can result in syncope. An increased risk of falls has been reported for elderly patients receiving thiazide diuretics. In addition, the antihypertensive effects of thiazides may be enhanced in other patients predisposed for orthostatic hypotension, including the post-sympathectomy patient.
 
Rapid fluctuations in either electrolyte or fluid balance may precipitate hepatic coma in susceptible patients. Therefore, indapamide should be used with caution in patients with hepatic disease or hepatic cirrhosis. Dosage reduction may be needed in patients with hepatic disease since indapamide is extensively metabolized in the liver.
 
Glucose intolerance, resulting in hyperglycemia and/or glycosuria, can occur during indapamide therapy. Therefore, blood and urine glucose should be routinely assessed in patients with diabetes mellitus receiving indapamide therapy. Although hyperglycemia did occur, chlorthalidone, a related thiazide diuretic, has been shown to reduce cardiovascular disease events in older diabetic patients with isolated systolic hypertension.
 
Indapamide is generally ineffective as renal function decreases (e.g., renal impairment with CrCl < 30 ml/min). Indapamide is contraindicated in patients with anuria and should not be used in patients with renal failure. Indapamide should be avoided in patients with renal disease because drug-induced hypovolemia can precipitate azotemia in these patients. Serum urate concentrations increase by an average of 1 mg% during indapamide therapy, so indapamide should be used cautiously, if at all, patients with a history of gout or hyperuricemia.
 
Indapamide is classified as a pregnancy category D drug by medical experts due to its similarity to the thiazide diuretics. It has not been shown to be teratogenic in animals or humans, but its use should nonetheless be avoided during pregnancy unless the potential therapeutic benefit justifies the risk to the fetus. Many diuretics cross the placenta and appear in cord blood. Indapamide is classified in FDA pregancy risk category B per the official label based on animal studies; however, animal studies are not always indicative of the potential for human fetal harm.
 
It is not known whether indapamide is excreted into breast-milk. Use cautiously in breast-feeding women.
 
The safe and effective use of indapamide has not been established in children.
 
Photosensitivity has been reported with thiazide diuretics like indapamide. Patients should avoid excessive sunlight (UV) exposure and therapy should be discontinued if phototoxicity occurs.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in individuals with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. According to the manufacturer, indapamide is contraindicated in individuals with sulfonamide hypersensitivity. However, while thiazide-type diuretics, such as indapamide, are sulfonamide derivatives, sulfonamide cross-sensitivity has been rarely documented. Sulfonamide antibiotics contain the N4-aromatic amine (arylamine) and the N1-aromatic heterocyclic ring which are believed to be involved in the development of IgE-hypersensitivity reactions; thiazide diuretics, such as indapamide, do not contain either. A relationship between sulfonamide hypersensitivity and allergic reactions with non-arylamine sulfonamide derivatives has not been definitively established and remains controversial. It has been theorized that individuals with a documented sulfonamide allergy may have a predisposition for the development of allergic drug reactions.
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    Photosensitivity has been reported with thiazide diuretics like indapamide. Instruct individuals taking indapamide to avoid excessive sunlight (UV) exposure.
    Headline
    cardiac arrhythmias, hypercalcemia, hypochloremia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, hyponatremia, vomiting
    General Information
    Correct any serum electrolyte imbalance prior to starting indapamide therapy. Indapamide may cause hyponatremia, hypochloremia, hypomagnesemia, or hypokalemia. Individuals who may be at a higher risk of electrolyte imbalance include elderly females, individuals who are vomiting excessively, receiving parenteral fluids, or on a salt-restricted diet, and individuals subject to electrolyte imbalance, such as those with heart failure, kidney disease, or cirrhosis. Indapamide can also increase serum calcium concentrations by decreasing excretion of urinary calcium; monitor serum calcium in individuals with hypercalcemia. Since indapamide-related hypercalcemia may mask hyperparathyroidism, discontinue indapamide prior to carrying out test for parathyroid function. Periodically monitor serum electrolyte concentrations and fluid balance during indapamide therapy. Electrolyte monitoring is particularly important in individuals at a higher risk from hypokalemia, such as those with cardiac arrhythmias or taking concomitant cardiac glycosides.
    Headline
    sympathectomy
    General Information
    The antihypertensive effects of thiazides may be enhanced in individuals predisposed for orthostatic hypotension, including the post-sympathectomy patient.
    Headline
    hepatic cirrhosis, hepatic failure
    General Information
    Indapamide-induced fluid shifts and fluctuations in serum electrolyte concentrations may precipitate hepatic coma in susceptible patients. Therefore, use indapamide with caution in individuals with progressive hepatic disease or hepatic failure. Hypokalemia may develop with rapid diuresis, severe hepatic cirrhosis, or concomitant use with corticosteroids.
    Headline
    diabetes mellitus
    General Information
    Monitor blood and/or urine glucose concentrations in individuals, particularly with diabetes mellitus, who are receiving indapamide therapy. Glucose intolerance, resulting in hyperglycemia and/or glycosuria, can occur during indapamide therapy; adjust dose of antidiabetic drugs as necessary.
    Headline
    anuria, renal disease
    General Information
    Indapamide is contraindicated in individuals with anuria and should be used with caution in individuals with renal disease or impairment. Drug-induced reduction in plasma volume may exacerbate or precipitate azotemia in individuals with severe renal disease. Guidelines recommend use of loop diuretics for the treatment of hypertension in individuals with moderate-to-severe chronic kidney disease (GFR less than 30 mL/minute/1.73m2). However, while a reduction in diuretic efficacy may occur with a GFR less than 30 mL/minute/1.73 m2, there is limited evidence that indapamide may retain its antihypertensive effects. Periodically monitor renal function during indapamide therapy. Consider withholding or discontinuing indapamide if progressive renal impairment occurs.
    Headline
    gout, hyperuricemia
    General Information
    Use indapamide with caution in individuals with hyperuricemia or gout. Indapamide reduces the clearance of uric acid and may exacerbate or precipitate hyperuricemia or gout. Periodically monitor uric acid concentrations during indapamide therapy, particularly in individuals with a history of acute gout who are not receiving uric acid lowering therapy.
    Headline
    glaucoma, narrow iridocorneal angles
    General Information
    Use indapamide with caution in individuals with narrow iridocorneal angles or glaucoma. Sulfonamide or sulfonamide-derivative drug therapies may cause an idiosyncratic reaction resulting in acute closed-angle glaucoma and increased intraocular pressure with or without noticeable acute myopic shift and/or choroidal effusions. Risk factors for developing acute angle-closure glaucoma may include a history of sulfonamide hypersensitivity or penicillin hypersensitivity. Prompt medical or surgical treatments may be necessary if the intraocular pressure remains uncontrolled.
    Headline
    systemic lupus erythematosus
    General Information
    Use indapamide with caution in individuals with a history of systemic lupus erythematosus. Indapamide may exacerbate or activate systemic lupus erythematosus.
    Headline
    geriatric
    General Information
    Geriatric adults may be more sensitive to the effects of indapamide and care should be taken in initial dosage selection. In general, initial doses should be at the low end of the dosage range to reflect greater frequency of decreased hepatic, renal, or cardiac function and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy. Monitor renal function, fluid status, and electrolytes carefully during therapy. Severe cases of hyponatremia, accompanied by hypokalemia, have been reported with recommended doses of indapamide and have occurred primarily in older adult females. The risk for this adverse event appears to be dose-related, with doses 2.5 mg per day or greater being more likely to cause hyponatremia. Thiazides may worsen dilutional hyponatremia, and an increased risk of falls has been reported for older adult patients receiving thiazide diuretics. According to the Beers Criteria, diuretics are considered potentially inappropriate medications (PIMs) in geriatric adults; use with caution due to the potential for causing or exacerbating SIADH or hyponatremia. Sodium levels should be closely monitored when starting or changing dosages in older adults.
    Headline
    preeclampsia, pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no adequate and well-controlled studies on the use of indapamide during human pregnancy. In animal studies, no fetal harm was observed in rats, mice, and rabbits exposed to indapamide at doses up to 6,250 times the therapeutic human dose. Diuretics cross the placenta and are present in cord blood. Adverse effects, including jaundice and thrombocytopenia, may occur in the fetus or neonate. Theoretically, there is concern about the potential for diuretics to cause intravascular volume depletion, which could cause fetal growth restriction or oligohydramnios. However, this concern has not been supported by the literature. Closely monitor the pregnant person's blood pressure, heart rate, and volume status and adjust their pharmacologic treatment as necessary to avoid hypotension and placental hypoperfusion. Diuretics should be generally avoided in preeclampsia, as plasma volume is reduced.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding during treatment with indapamide. There are no data on the presence of indapamide in human milk, its effects on the breastfed child, or its effects on milk production. High doses of diuretics resulting in intense diuresis may decrease milk production. Alternative diuretics, such as hydrochlorothiazide or furosemide, are preferred, as more data are available on their safety during lactation.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    There are no adequate and well-controlled studies on the use of indapamide during human pregnancy. In animal studies, no fetal harm was observed in rats, mice, and rabbits exposed to indapamide at doses up to 6,250 times the therapeutic human dose. Diuretics cross the placenta and are present in cord blood. Adverse effects, including jaundice and thrombocytopenia, may occur in the fetus or neonate. Theoretically, there is concern about the potential for diuretics to cause intravascular volume depletion, which could cause fetal growth restriction or oligohydramnios. However, this concern has not been supported by the literature. Closely monitor the pregnant person's blood pressure, heart rate, and volume status and adjust their pharmacologic treatment as necessary to avoid hypotension and placental hypoperfusion. Diuretics should be generally avoided in preeclampsia, as plasma volume is reduced.

Interactions
Acarbose: (Moderate) Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, like alpha-glucosidase inhibitors.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal toxicity in patients receiving diuretics because salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin synthesis, which can lead to fluid retention and increased peripheral vascular resistance.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin: (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal toxicity in patients receiving diuretics because salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin synthesis, which can lead to fluid retention and increased peripheral vascular resistance.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal toxicity in patients receiving diuretics because salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin synthesis, which can lead to fluid retention and increased peripheral vascular resistance.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when indapamide is administered with codeine. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Acetaminophen; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when indapamide is administered with hydrocodone. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Acetaminophen; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when indapamide is administered with oxycodone. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Acetaminophen; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Acetaminophen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Albuterol; Budesonide: (Moderate) Additive hypokalemia may occur when indapamide is coadministered with other drugs with a significant risk of hypokalemia such as systemic corticosteroids. Coadminister with caution and careful monitoring.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when indapamide is administered with afentanil. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Alfuzosin: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. This may be desirable, but occasionally orthostatic hypotension may occur. Decreased indapamide dosages may be necessary during concomitant use.
Aliskiren: (Moderate) Aliskiren can enhance the effects of indapamide on blood pressure if given concomitantly. This additive effect may be desirable, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly. Of note, patients with hyponatremia or hypovolemia may also develop reversible renal insufficiency when given aliskiren and diuretics concomitantly. Blood pressure and electrolytes should be routinely monitored in patients receiving aliskiren.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Aliskiren can enhance the effects of indapamide on blood pressure if given concomitantly. This additive effect may be desirable, but dosages must be adjusted accordingly. Of note, patients with hyponatremia or hypovolemia may also develop reversible renal insufficiency when given aliskiren and diuretics concomitantly. Blood pressure and electrolytes should be routinely monitored in patients receiving aliskiren.
Alogliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, like metformin. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia.
Alogliptin; Pioglitazone: (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, such as thiazolidinediones. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia.
Alpha-glucosidase Inhibitors: (Moderate) Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, like alpha-glucosidase inhibitors.
aMILoride: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. This may be desirable, but occasionally orthostatic hypotension may occur. Dosages should be adjusted based on clinical response.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. This may be desirable, but occasionally orthostatic hypotension may occur. Dosages should be adjusted based on clinical response.
Aminolevulinic Acid: (Moderate) Indapamide may cause photosensitivity and may increase the photosensitization effects of drugs like photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy. Prevention of photosensitivity includes adequate protection from sources of UV radiation (e.g., avoiding sun exposure and tanning booths) and the use of protective clothing and sunscreens on exposed skin.
Aminosalicylate sodium, Aminosalicylic acid: (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal toxicity in patients receiving diuretics because salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin synthesis, which can lead to fluid retention and increased peripheral vascular resistance.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. In some patients, this may be desirable, but orthostatic hypotension may occur. Patients with hyponatremia or hypovolemia are more susceptible to developing reversible renal insufficiency when given an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE Inhibitors) and diuretic therapy concomitantly.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. In some patients, this may be desirable, but orthostatic hypotension may occur. Angiotensin II receptor antagonists tend to reverse the potassium loss, but not the serum uric acid rise associated with thiazide diuretic monotherapy.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. In some patients, this may be desirable, but orthostatic hypotension may occur. Angiotensin II receptor antagonists tend to reverse the potassium loss, but not the serum uric acid rise associated with thiazide diuretic monotherapy.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. In some patients, this may be desirable, but orthostatic hypotension may occur. Angiotensin II receptor antagonists tend to reverse the potassium loss, but not the serum uric acid rise associated with thiazide diuretic monotherapy.
Amphetamine: (Moderate) Indapamide may increase blood levels and therefore potentiate the actions of amphetamines. Thiazide diuretics and related drugs like indapamide may increase urinary pH, acting as a urinary alkalinizer, thus reducing urinary excretion and increasing blood concentrations of the amphetamine. Co-administration of amphetamines and urinary alkalinizing agents should be avoided if possible. If needed, monitor for common amphetamine side effects, including decreased appetite, anxiety, dizziness, dry mouth, irritability, insomnia, nausea, increased blood pressure or increased heart rate.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine Salts: (Moderate) Indapamide may increase blood levels and therefore potentiate the actions of amphetamines. Thiazide diuretics and related drugs like indapamide may increase urinary pH, acting as a urinary alkalinizer, thus reducing urinary excretion and increasing blood concentrations of the amphetamine. Co-administration of amphetamines and urinary alkalinizing agents should be avoided if possible. If needed, monitor for common amphetamine side effects, including decreased appetite, anxiety, dizziness, dry mouth, irritability, insomnia, nausea, increased blood pressure or increased heart rate.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Indapamide may increase blood levels and therefore potentiate the actions of amphetamines. Thiazide diuretics and related drugs like indapamide may increase urinary pH, acting as a urinary alkalinizer, thus reducing urinary excretion and increasing blood concentrations of the amphetamine. Co-administration of amphetamines and urinary alkalinizing agents should be avoided if possible. If needed, monitor for common amphetamine side effects, including decreased appetite, anxiety, dizziness, dry mouth, irritability, insomnia, nausea, increased blood pressure or increased heart rate.
Amphotericin B lipid complex (ABLC): (Moderate) Additive hypokalemia may occur when non-potassium sparing diuretics (indapamide) are coadministered with other drugs with a significant risk of hypokalemia (e.g., amphotericin B).
Amphotericin B liposomal (LAmB): (Moderate) Additive hypokalemia may occur when non-potassium sparing diuretics (indapamide) are coadministered with other drugs with a significant risk of hypokalemia (e.g., amphotericin B).
Amphotericin B: (Moderate) Additive hypokalemia may occur when non-potassium sparing diuretics (indapamide) are coadministered with other drugs with a significant risk of hypokalemia (e.g., amphotericin B).
Angiotensin II receptor antagonists: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. In some patients, this may be desirable, but orthostatic hypotension may occur. Angiotensin II receptor antagonists tend to reverse the potassium loss, but not the serum uric acid rise associated with thiazide diuretic monotherapy.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. In some patients, this may be desirable, but orthostatic hypotension may occur. Patients with hyponatremia or hypovolemia are more susceptible to developing reversible renal insufficiency when given an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE Inhibitors) and diuretic therapy concomitantly.
Apomorphine: (Moderate) Use of indapamide and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Arsenic Trioxide: (Moderate) Indapamide may induce hypokalemia, increasing the potential for proarrhythmic effects (e.g., torsade de pointes) of arsenic trioxide. Potassium levels should be within the normal range prior and during administration of these agents. In the absence of electrolyte imbalances, these agents can be used together safely.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Asenapine: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Aspirin, ASA: (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal toxicity in patients receiving diuretics because salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin synthesis, which can lead to fluid retention and increased peripheral vascular resistance.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal toxicity in patients receiving diuretics because salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin synthesis, which can lead to fluid retention and increased peripheral vascular resistance.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal toxicity in patients receiving diuretics because salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin synthesis, which can lead to fluid retention and increased peripheral vascular resistance.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal toxicity in patients receiving diuretics because salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin synthesis, which can lead to fluid retention and increased peripheral vascular resistance.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when indapamide is administered with codeine. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone. (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal toxicity in patients receiving diuretics because salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin synthesis, which can lead to fluid retention and increased peripheral vascular resistance.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal toxicity in patients receiving diuretics because salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin synthesis, which can lead to fluid retention and increased peripheral vascular resistance.
Aspirin, ASA; Dipyridamole: (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal toxicity in patients receiving diuretics because salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin synthesis, which can lead to fluid retention and increased peripheral vascular resistance.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal toxicity in patients receiving diuretics because salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin synthesis, which can lead to fluid retention and increased peripheral vascular resistance.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when indapamide is administered with oxycodone. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone. (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal toxicity in patients receiving diuretics because salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin synthesis, which can lead to fluid retention and increased peripheral vascular resistance.
Atracurium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and indapamide may prolong neuromuscular blockade, possibly due to hypokalemia or alterations in potassium concentrations across the end-plate membrane.
Azelastine; Fluticasone: (Moderate) Additive hypokalemia may occur when indapamide is coadministered with other drugs with a significant risk of hypokalemia such as systemic corticosteroids. Coadminister with caution and careful monitoring.
Azilsartan: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. In some patients, this may be desirable, but orthostatic hypotension may occur. Angiotensin II receptor antagonists tend to reverse the potassium loss, but not the serum uric acid rise associated with thiazide diuretic monotherapy.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. In some patients, this may be desirable, but orthostatic hypotension may occur. Angiotensin II receptor antagonists tend to reverse the potassium loss, but not the serum uric acid rise associated with thiazide diuretic monotherapy.
Beclomethasone: (Moderate) Additive hypokalemia may occur when indapamide is coadministered with other drugs with a significant risk of hypokalemia such as systemic corticosteroids. Coadminister with caution and careful monitoring.
Belladonna; Opium: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when indapamide is administered with opium. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Benazepril: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. In some patients, this may be desirable, but orthostatic hypotension may occur. Patients with hyponatremia or hypovolemia are more susceptible to developing reversible renal insufficiency when given an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE Inhibitors) and diuretic therapy concomitantly.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. In some patients, this may be desirable, but orthostatic hypotension may occur. Patients with hyponatremia or hypovolemia are more susceptible to developing reversible renal insufficiency when given an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE Inhibitors) and diuretic therapy concomitantly.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal toxicity in patients receiving diuretics because salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin synthesis, which can lead to fluid retention and increased peripheral vascular resistance.
Benzphetamine: (Moderate) Indapamide may increase blood levels and therefore potentiate the actions of amphetamines. Thiazide diuretics and related drugs like indapamide may increase urinary pH, acting as a urinary alkalinizer, thus reducing urinary excretion and increasing blood concentrations of the amphetamine. Co-administration of amphetamines and urinary alkalinizing agents should be avoided if possible. If needed, monitor for common amphetamine side effects, including decreased appetite, anxiety, dizziness, dry mouth, irritability, insomnia, nausea, increased blood pressure or increased heart rate.
Betamethasone: (Moderate) Additive hypokalemia may occur when indapamide is coadministered with other drugs with a significant risk of hypokalemia such as systemic corticosteroids. Coadminister with caution and careful monitoring.
Bismuth Subsalicylate: (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal toxicity in patients receiving diuretics because salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin synthesis, which can lead to fluid retention and increased peripheral vascular resistance.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal toxicity in patients receiving diuretics because salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin synthesis, which can lead to fluid retention and increased peripheral vascular resistance.
Brexpiprazole: (Moderate) Due to brexpiprazole's antagonism at alpha 1-adrenergic receptors, the drug may enhance the hypotensive effects of alpha-blockers and other antihypertensive agents.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Budesonide: (Moderate) Additive hypokalemia may occur when indapamide is coadministered with other drugs with a significant risk of hypokalemia such as systemic corticosteroids. Coadminister with caution and careful monitoring.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Moderate) Additive hypokalemia may occur when indapamide is coadministered with other drugs with a significant risk of hypokalemia such as systemic corticosteroids. Coadminister with caution and careful monitoring.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Additive hypokalemia may occur when indapamide is coadministered with other drugs with a significant risk of hypokalemia such as systemic corticosteroids. Coadminister with caution and careful monitoring.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Buprenorphine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when indapamide is administered with buprenorphine. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when indapamide is administered with buprenorphine. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when indapamide is administered with codeine. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when indapamide is administered with codeine. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone. (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal toxicity in patients receiving diuretics because salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin synthesis, which can lead to fluid retention and increased peripheral vascular resistance.
Cabergoline: (Moderate) Cabergoline should be used cautiously with antihypertensive agents, including indapamide. Cabergoline has been associated with hypotension. Initial doses of cabergoline higher than 1 mg may produce orthostatic hypotension. It may be advisable to monitor blood pressure.
Calcium Phosphate, Supersaturated: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as indapamide may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients receiving sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Canagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, like metformin. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia.
Candesartan: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. In some patients, this may be desirable, but orthostatic hypotension may occur. Angiotensin II receptor antagonists tend to reverse the potassium loss, but not the serum uric acid rise associated with thiazide diuretic monotherapy.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. In some patients, this may be desirable, but orthostatic hypotension may occur. Angiotensin II receptor antagonists tend to reverse the potassium loss, but not the serum uric acid rise associated with thiazide diuretic monotherapy.
Captopril: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. In some patients, this may be desirable, but orthostatic hypotension may occur. Patients with hyponatremia or hypovolemia are more susceptible to developing reversible renal insufficiency when given an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE Inhibitors) and diuretic therapy concomitantly.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. In some patients, this may be desirable, but orthostatic hypotension may occur. Patients with hyponatremia or hypovolemia are more susceptible to developing reversible renal insufficiency when given an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE Inhibitors) and diuretic therapy concomitantly.
Cardiac glycosides: (Moderate) Indapamide may induce hypokalemia, increasing the potential for proarrhythmic effects (e.g., torsade de pointes) of cardiac glycosides. Potassium levels should be within the normal range prior and during administration of these agents.
Celecoxib: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when indapamide is administered with tramadol. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone. (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when indapamide is administered with codeine. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when indapamide is administered with hydrocodone. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
chlorproMAZINE: (Moderate) Indapamide may cause electrolyte disturbances, which may increase the potential for proarrhythmic effects of selected phenothiazines.
Choline Salicylate; Magnesium Salicylate: (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal toxicity in patients receiving diuretics because salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin synthesis, which can lead to fluid retention and increased peripheral vascular resistance.
Ciclesonide: (Moderate) Additive hypokalemia may occur when indapamide is coadministered with other drugs with a significant risk of hypokalemia such as systemic corticosteroids. Coadminister with caution and careful monitoring.
Cidofovir: (Contraindicated) The administration of cidofovir with another potentially nephrotoxic agent, such as diuretics, is contraindicated. Diuretics should be discontinued at least 7 days prior to beginning cidofovir.
Cisatracurium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and indapamide may prolong neuromuscular blockade, possibly due to hypokalemia or alterations in potassium concentrations across the end-plate membrane.
Citalopram: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and citalopram use; consider discontinuing citalopram if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when indapamide is administered with codeine. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when indapamide is administered with codeine. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when indapamide is administered with codeine. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when indapamide is administered with codeine. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Indapamide may cause electrolyte disturbances, which may increase the potential for proarrhythmic effects of selected phenothiazines. (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when indapamide is administered with codeine. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Indapamide may cause electrolyte disturbances, which may increase the potential for proarrhythmic effects of selected phenothiazines. (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when indapamide is administered with codeine. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Co-Enzyme Q10, Ubiquinone: (Moderate) Co-enzyme Q10, ubiquinone (CoQ10) may lower blood pressure. CoQ10 use in combination with antihypertensive agents may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients who choose to take CoQ10 concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring. Patients should be advised to inform their prescriber of their use of CoQ10.
Corticosteroids: (Moderate) Additive hypokalemia may occur when indapamide is coadministered with other drugs with a significant risk of hypokalemia such as systemic corticosteroids. Coadminister with caution and careful monitoring.
Corticotropin, ACTH: (Minor) Monitor potassium concentrations during concomitant corticotropin and indapamide use due to risk for additive hypokalemia; potassium supplementation may be necessary. Both corticotropin and indapamide cause increased renal potassium loss.
Cortisone: (Moderate) Additive hypokalemia may occur when indapamide is coadministered with other drugs with a significant risk of hypokalemia such as systemic corticosteroids. Coadminister with caution and careful monitoring.
Dapagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, like metformin. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia.
Dapagliflozin; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, like saxagliptin. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia.
Deflazacort: (Moderate) Additive hypokalemia may occur when indapamide is coadministered with other drugs with a significant risk of hypokalemia such as systemic corticosteroids. Coadminister with caution and careful monitoring.
Desloratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Desvenlafaxine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) use; consider discontinuing the SNRI if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
dexAMETHasone: (Moderate) Additive hypokalemia may occur when indapamide is coadministered with other drugs with a significant risk of hypokalemia such as systemic corticosteroids. Coadminister with caution and careful monitoring.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents such as indapamide. Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives.
Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Indapamide may increase blood levels and therefore potentiate the actions of amphetamines. Thiazide diuretics and related drugs like indapamide may increase urinary pH, acting as a urinary alkalinizer, thus reducing urinary excretion and increasing blood concentrations of the amphetamine. Co-administration of amphetamines and urinary alkalinizing agents should be avoided if possible. If needed, monitor for common amphetamine side effects, including decreased appetite, anxiety, dizziness, dry mouth, irritability, insomnia, nausea, increased blood pressure or increased heart rate.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Diazoxide: (Moderate) Monitor for hyperglycemia and hyperuricemia during concomitant use of diazoxide and diuretics. Both medications have been associated with these adverse effects and risk may be additive with concomitant use.
Diclofenac: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Diethylpropion: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Diflunisal: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Digoxin: (Moderate) Indapamide may induce hypokalemia, increasing the potential for proarrhythmic effects (e.g., torsade de pointes) of cardiac glycosides. Potassium levels should be within the normal range prior and during administration of these agents.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
DOBUTamine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Dofetilide: (Major) Indapamide may induce hypokalemia, increasing the potential for proarrhythmic effects (e.g., torsade de pointes) of dofetilide. Potassium levels should be within the normal range prior and during administration of these agents. In the absence of electrolyte imbalances, these agents can be used together safely.
DOPamine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Dulaglutide: (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, like incretin mimetics. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) use; consider discontinuing the SNRI if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Empagliflozin: (Moderate) Administer empagliflozin; metformin with caution in patients receiving diuretics. When empagliflozin is initiated in patients already receiving diuretics, volume depletion can occur. Patients with impaired renal function, low systolic blood pressure, or who are elderly may also be at a greater risk for volume depletion and perhaps symptomatic hypotension. Before initiating empagliflozin in patients with one or more of these characteristics, assess volume status and correct if necessary. Monitor for signs and symptoms after initiating therapy.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin: (Moderate) Administer empagliflozin; metformin with caution in patients receiving diuretics. When empagliflozin is initiated in patients already receiving diuretics, volume depletion can occur. Patients with impaired renal function, low systolic blood pressure, or who are elderly may also be at a greater risk for volume depletion and perhaps symptomatic hypotension. Before initiating empagliflozin in patients with one or more of these characteristics, assess volume status and correct if necessary. Monitor for signs and symptoms after initiating therapy.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, like metformin. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. (Moderate) Administer empagliflozin; metformin with caution in patients receiving diuretics. When empagliflozin is initiated in patients already receiving diuretics, volume depletion can occur. Patients with impaired renal function, low systolic blood pressure, or who are elderly may also be at a greater risk for volume depletion and perhaps symptomatic hypotension. Before initiating empagliflozin in patients with one or more of these characteristics, assess volume status and correct if necessary. Monitor for signs and symptoms after initiating therapy.
Empagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, like metformin. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. (Moderate) Administer empagliflozin; metformin with caution in patients receiving diuretics. When empagliflozin is initiated in patients already receiving diuretics, volume depletion can occur. Patients with impaired renal function, low systolic blood pressure, or who are elderly may also be at a greater risk for volume depletion and perhaps symptomatic hypotension. Before initiating empagliflozin in patients with one or more of these characteristics, assess volume status and correct if necessary. Monitor for signs and symptoms after initiating therapy.
Enalapril, Enalaprilat: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. In some patients, this may be desirable, but orthostatic hypotension may occur. Patients with hyponatremia or hypovolemia are more susceptible to developing reversible renal insufficiency when given an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE Inhibitors) and diuretic therapy concomitantly.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. In some patients, this may be desirable, but orthostatic hypotension may occur. Patients with hyponatremia or hypovolemia are more susceptible to developing reversible renal insufficiency when given an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE Inhibitors) and diuretic therapy concomitantly.
ePHEDrine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
ePHEDrine; guaiFENesin: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Epoprostenol: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. This may be desirable, but occasionally orthostatic hypotension may occur. Dosages should be adjusted based on clinical response.
Ertugliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, like metformin. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia.
Ertugliflozin; SITagliptin: (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, like sitagliptin. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia.
Escitalopram: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and escitalopram use; consider discontinuing escitalopram if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Etodolac: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Exenatide: (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, like incretin mimetics. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia.
Fenoprofen: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Fexofenadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Fludrocortisone: (Moderate) Additive hypokalemia may occur when indapamide is coadministered with other drugs with a significant risk of hypokalemia such as systemic corticosteroids. Coadminister with caution and careful monitoring.
Flunisolide: (Moderate) Additive hypokalemia may occur when indapamide is coadministered with other drugs with a significant risk of hypokalemia such as systemic corticosteroids. Coadminister with caution and careful monitoring.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and fluoxetine use; consider discontinuing fluoxetine if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
fluPHENAZine: (Moderate) Indapamide may cause electrolyte disturbances, which may increase the potential for proarrhythmic effects of selected phenothiazines.
Flurbiprofen: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Fluticasone: (Moderate) Additive hypokalemia may occur when indapamide is coadministered with other drugs with a significant risk of hypokalemia such as systemic corticosteroids. Coadminister with caution and careful monitoring.
Fluticasone; Salmeterol: (Moderate) Additive hypokalemia may occur when indapamide is coadministered with other drugs with a significant risk of hypokalemia such as systemic corticosteroids. Coadminister with caution and careful monitoring.
Fluticasone; Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Additive hypokalemia may occur when indapamide is coadministered with other drugs with a significant risk of hypokalemia such as systemic corticosteroids. Coadminister with caution and careful monitoring.
Fluticasone; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Additive hypokalemia may occur when indapamide is coadministered with other drugs with a significant risk of hypokalemia such as systemic corticosteroids. Coadminister with caution and careful monitoring.
fluvoxaMINE: (Moderate) Patients receiving a diuretic during treatment with fluvoxamine may be at greater risk of developing syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). Hyponatremia due to SIADH has been reported during therapy with SSRIs. Cases involving serum sodium levels lower than 110 mmol/L have occurred. Hyponatremia may be potentiated by agents which can cause sodium depletion such as diuretics. Discontinuation of fluvoxamine should be considered in patients who develop symptomatic hyponatremia.
Formoterol; Mometasone: (Moderate) Additive hypokalemia may occur when indapamide is coadministered with other drugs with a significant risk of hypokalemia such as systemic corticosteroids. Coadminister with caution and careful monitoring.
Fosinopril: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. In some patients, this may be desirable, but orthostatic hypotension may occur. Patients with hyponatremia or hypovolemia are more susceptible to developing reversible renal insufficiency when given an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE Inhibitors) and diuretic therapy concomitantly.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. In some patients, this may be desirable, but orthostatic hypotension may occur. Patients with hyponatremia or hypovolemia are more susceptible to developing reversible renal insufficiency when given an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE Inhibitors) and diuretic therapy concomitantly.
Glimepiride: (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, like sulfonylureas. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia.
glipiZIDE: (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, like sulfonylureas. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia.
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, like metformin. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, like sulfonylureas. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia.
glyBURIDE: (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, like sulfonylureas. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, like metformin. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, like sulfonylureas. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia.
guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Halobetasol; Tazarotene: (Moderate) The manufacturer states that tazarotene should be administered with caution in patients who are also taking drugs known to be photosensitizers, such as thiazide diuretics, as concomitant use may augment phototoxicity. Patients should take care and use proper techniques to limit sunlight and UV exposure of treated areas.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when indapamide is administered with hydrocodone. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. In some patients, this may be desirable, but orthostatic hypotension may occur. Patients with hyponatremia or hypovolemia are more susceptible to developing reversible renal insufficiency when given an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE Inhibitors) and diuretic therapy concomitantly.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when indapamide is administered with hydrocodone. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when indapamide is administered with hydrocodone. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone. (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Hydrocortisone: (Moderate) Additive hypokalemia may occur when indapamide is coadministered with other drugs with a significant risk of hypokalemia such as systemic corticosteroids. Coadminister with caution and careful monitoring.
HYDROmorphone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when indapamide is administered with hydromorphone. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal toxicity in patients receiving diuretics because salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin synthesis, which can lead to fluid retention and increased peripheral vascular resistance.
Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Iloperidone: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, iloperidone can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use with antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of iloperidone and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Iloprost: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. This may be desirable, but occasionally orthostatic hypotension may occur. Dosages should be adjusted based on clinical response.
Incretin Mimetics: (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, like incretin mimetics. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia.
Indomethacin: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Inotersen: (Moderate) Use caution with concomitant use of inotersen and diuretics due to the risk of glomerulonephritis and nephrotoxicity.
Insulin Aspart: (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, like insulins. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia.
Insulin Aspart; Insulin Aspart Protamine: (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, like insulins. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia.
Insulin Degludec: (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, like insulins. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia.
Insulin Degludec; Liraglutide: (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, like incretin mimetics. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, like insulins. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia.
Insulin Detemir: (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, like insulins. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia.
Insulin Glargine: (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, like insulins. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia.
Insulin Glargine; Lixisenatide: (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, like incretin mimetics. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, like insulins. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia.
Insulin Glulisine: (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, like insulins. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia.
Insulin Icodec: (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, like insulins. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia.
Insulin Lispro: (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, like insulins. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia.
Insulin Lispro; Insulin Lispro Protamine: (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, like insulins. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia.
Insulin, Inhaled: (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, like insulins. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia.
Insulins: (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, like insulins. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia.
Irbesartan: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. In some patients, this may be desirable, but orthostatic hypotension may occur. Angiotensin II receptor antagonists tend to reverse the potassium loss, but not the serum uric acid rise associated with thiazide diuretic monotherapy.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. In some patients, this may be desirable, but orthostatic hypotension may occur. Angiotensin II receptor antagonists tend to reverse the potassium loss, but not the serum uric acid rise associated with thiazide diuretic monotherapy.
Isocarboxazid: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may be seen when MAOIs are combined with antihypertensives. Monitor blood pressure during concurrent therapy of MAOIs with diuretics such as indapamide.
Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, like insulins. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia.
Isoproterenol: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Ketoprofen: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Ketorolac: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Levomilnacipran: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) use; consider discontinuing the SNRI if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Levorphanol: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when indapamide is administered with levorphanol. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, like metformin. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia.
Liraglutide: (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, like incretin mimetics. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia.
Lisdexamfetamine: (Moderate) Indapamide may increase blood levels and therefore potentiate the actions of amphetamines. Thiazide diuretics and related drugs like indapamide may increase urinary pH, acting as a urinary alkalinizer, thus reducing urinary excretion and increasing blood concentrations of the amphetamine. Co-administration of amphetamines and urinary alkalinizing agents should be avoided if possible. If needed, monitor for common amphetamine side effects, including decreased appetite, anxiety, dizziness, dry mouth, irritability, insomnia, nausea, increased blood pressure or increased heart rate.
Lisinopril: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. In some patients, this may be desirable, but orthostatic hypotension may occur. Patients with hyponatremia or hypovolemia are more susceptible to developing reversible renal insufficiency when given an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE Inhibitors) and diuretic therapy concomitantly.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. In some patients, this may be desirable, but orthostatic hypotension may occur. Patients with hyponatremia or hypovolemia are more susceptible to developing reversible renal insufficiency when given an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE Inhibitors) and diuretic therapy concomitantly.
Lithium: (Moderate) The risk of lithium toxicity may be increased in patients receiving medications that affect kidney function and sodium excretion, such as indapamide. Monitor serum lithium levels closely and adjust the lithium dosage if necessary. One case of severe lithium toxicity occurred in an adult male patient with bipolar disorder after the addition of indapamide to a prior regimen which included lithium. The baseline lithium concentration was not reported; however, after one week of treatment with indapamide, the patient presented to the emergency room with a lithium serum concentration of 3.93 mEq/Liter and symptoms of severe toxicity. The patient recovered and returned to his prior lithium regimen after receiving hemodialysis and stopping therapy with indapamide.
Lixisenatide: (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, like incretin mimetics. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia.
Loratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Losartan: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. In some patients, this may be desirable, but orthostatic hypotension may occur. Angiotensin II receptor antagonists tend to reverse the potassium loss, but not the serum uric acid rise associated with thiazide diuretic monotherapy.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. In some patients, this may be desirable, but orthostatic hypotension may occur. Angiotensin II receptor antagonists tend to reverse the potassium loss, but not the serum uric acid rise associated with thiazide diuretic monotherapy.
Lurasidone: (Moderate) Due to the antagonism of lurasidone at alpha-1 adrenergic receptors, the drug may enhance the hypotensive effects of alpha-blockers and other antihypertensive agents. If concurrent use of lurasidone and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Magnesium Salicylate: (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal toxicity in patients receiving diuretics because salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin synthesis, which can lead to fluid retention and increased peripheral vascular resistance.
Magnesium Sulfate; Potassium Sulfate; Sodium Sulfate: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sulfate salt bowel preparation in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as diuretics.
Mannitol: (Major) Avoid use of other diuretics with mannitol, if possible. Concomitant administration may potentiate the renal toxicity of mannitol.
Meclofenamate Sodium: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Mefenamic Acid: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Meglitinides: (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, like meglitinides. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia.
Meloxicam: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when indapamide is administered with meperidine. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
metFORMIN: (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, like metformin. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia.
metFORMIN; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, like metformin. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, like saxagliptin. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia.
metFORMIN; SITagliptin: (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, like metformin. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, like sitagliptin. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia.
Methamphetamine: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as indapamide. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Indapamide may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
methazolAMIDE: (Moderate) Other diuretics may increase the risk of hypokalemia if used concurrently with methazolamide. Monitor serum potassium levels to determine the need for potassium supplementation and/or alteration in drug therapy. There may also be an additive diuretic or hyperuricemic effect.
Methenamine; Sodium Salicylate: (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal toxicity in patients receiving diuretics because salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin synthesis, which can lead to fluid retention and increased peripheral vascular resistance.
Methoxsalen: (Moderate) Indapamide may cause photosensitivity and may increase the photosensitization effects of drugs like photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy. Prevention of photosensitivity includes adequate protection from sources of UV radiation (e.g., avoiding sun exposure and tanning booths) and the use of protective clothing and sunscreens on exposed skin.
Methylphenidate Derivatives: (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents such as indapamide. Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives.
Methylphenidate: (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents such as indapamide. Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives.
methylPREDNISolone: (Moderate) Additive hypokalemia may occur when indapamide is coadministered with other drugs with a significant risk of hypokalemia such as systemic corticosteroids. Coadminister with caution and careful monitoring.
Midodrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Miglitol: (Moderate) Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Because of this, a potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, like alpha-glucosidase inhibitors.
Milnacipran: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) use; consider discontinuing the SNRI if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Moexipril: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. In some patients, this may be desirable, but orthostatic hypotension may occur. Patients with hyponatremia or hypovolemia are more susceptible to developing reversible renal insufficiency when given an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE Inhibitors) and diuretic therapy concomitantly.
Mometasone: (Moderate) Additive hypokalemia may occur when indapamide is coadministered with other drugs with a significant risk of hypokalemia such as systemic corticosteroids. Coadminister with caution and careful monitoring.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may be seen when MAOIs are combined with antihypertensives. Monitor blood pressure during concurrent therapy of MAOIs with diuretics such as indapamide.
Morphine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when indapamide is administered with morphine. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone. Morphine may also cause acute urinary retention by causing a spasm of the bladder sphincter; men with enlarged prostates may have a higher risk of this reaction.
Nabumetone: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Naproxen: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Nateglinide: (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, like meglitinides. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia.
Neuromuscular blockers: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and indapamide may prolong neuromuscular blockade, possibly due to hypokalemia or alterations in potassium concentrations across the end-plate membrane.
Nitroprusside: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. This may be desirable, but occasionally orthostatic hypotension may occur. Dosages should be adjusted based on clinical response.
Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Norepinephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and fluoxetine use; consider discontinuing fluoxetine if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Oliceridine: (Moderate) Monitor patients for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure if diuretics are used concomitantly with oliceridine; increase the dosage of the diuretic as needed. Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone.
Olmesartan: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. In some patients, this may be desirable, but orthostatic hypotension may occur. Angiotensin II receptor antagonists tend to reverse the potassium loss, but not the serum uric acid rise associated with thiazide diuretic monotherapy.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. In some patients, this may be desirable, but orthostatic hypotension may occur. Angiotensin II receptor antagonists tend to reverse the potassium loss, but not the serum uric acid rise associated with thiazide diuretic monotherapy.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. In some patients, this may be desirable, but orthostatic hypotension may occur. Angiotensin II receptor antagonists tend to reverse the potassium loss, but not the serum uric acid rise associated with thiazide diuretic monotherapy.
Olopatadine; Mometasone: (Moderate) Additive hypokalemia may occur when indapamide is coadministered with other drugs with a significant risk of hypokalemia such as systemic corticosteroids. Coadminister with caution and careful monitoring.
Orforglipron: (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, like incretin mimetics. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia.
Oxaprozin: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when indapamide is administered with oxycodone. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Oxymetazoline: (Major) The vasoconstricting actions of oxymetazoline, an alpha adrenergic agonist, may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. If these drugs are used together, closely monitor for changes in blood pressure.
oxyMORphone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when indapamide is administered with oxymorphone. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
PARoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and paroxetine use; consider discontinuing paroxetine if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Pentazocine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when indapamide is administered with pentazocine. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Pentoxifylline: (Moderate) Pentoxifylline has been used concurrently with antihypertensive drugs (beta blockers, diuretics) without observed problems. Small decreases in blood pressure have been observed in some patients treated with pentoxifylline; periodic systemic blood pressure monitoring is recommended for patients receiving concomitant antihypertensives. If indicated, dosage of the antihypertensive agents should be reduced.
Perindopril: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. In some patients, this may be desirable, but orthostatic hypotension may occur. Patients with hyponatremia or hypovolemia are more susceptible to developing reversible renal insufficiency when given an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE Inhibitors) and diuretic therapy concomitantly.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. In some patients, this may be desirable, but orthostatic hypotension may occur. Patients with hyponatremia or hypovolemia are more susceptible to developing reversible renal insufficiency when given an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE Inhibitors) and diuretic therapy concomitantly.
Perphenazine: (Moderate) Indapamide may cause electrolyte disturbances, which may increase the potential for proarrhythmic effects of selected phenothiazines.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Indapamide may cause electrolyte disturbances, which may increase the potential for proarrhythmic effects of selected phenothiazines.
Phendimetrazine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Phenelzine: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may be seen when MAOIs are combined with antihypertensives. Monitor blood pressure during concurrent therapy of MAOIs with diuretics such as indapamide.
Phenothiazines: (Moderate) Indapamide may cause electrolyte disturbances, which may increase the potential for proarrhythmic effects of selected phenothiazines.
Phentermine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Photosensitizing agents (topical): (Moderate) Indapamide may cause photosensitivity and may increase the photosensitization effects of drugs like photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy. Prevention of photosensitivity includes adequate protection from sources of UV radiation (e.g., avoiding sun exposure and tanning booths) and the use of protective clothing and sunscreens on exposed skin.
Pioglitazone: (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, such as thiazolidinediones. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia.
Pioglitazone; Glimepiride: (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, like sulfonylureas. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, such as thiazolidinediones. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia.
Pioglitazone; metFORMIN: (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, like metformin. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, such as thiazolidinediones. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia.
Piroxicam: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Polyethylene Glycol; Electrolytes: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sulfate salt bowel preparation in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as diuretics.
Polyethylene Glycol; Electrolytes; Ascorbic Acid: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sulfate salt bowel preparation in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as diuretics.
Potassium-sparing diuretics: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. This may be desirable, but occasionally orthostatic hypotension may occur. Dosages should be adjusted based on clinical response.
Pramlintide: (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, like pramlintide. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia.
Prazosin: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. This may be desirable, but occasionally orthostatic hypotension may occur. Decreased indapamide dosages may be necessary during concomitant use.
prednisoLONE: (Moderate) Additive hypokalemia may occur when indapamide is coadministered with other drugs with a significant risk of hypokalemia such as systemic corticosteroids. Coadminister with caution and careful monitoring.
predniSONE: (Moderate) Additive hypokalemia may occur when indapamide is coadministered with other drugs with a significant risk of hypokalemia such as systemic corticosteroids. Coadminister with caution and careful monitoring.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Prochlorperazine: (Moderate) Indapamide may cause electrolyte disturbances, which may increase the potential for proarrhythmic effects of selected phenothiazines.
Promethazine: (Moderate) Indapamide may cause electrolyte disturbances, which may increase the potential for proarrhythmic effects of selected phenothiazines.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Indapamide may cause electrolyte disturbances, which may increase the potential for proarrhythmic effects of selected phenothiazines.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Indapamide may cause electrolyte disturbances, which may increase the potential for proarrhythmic effects of selected phenothiazines. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Quinapril: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. In some patients, this may be desirable, but orthostatic hypotension may occur. Patients with hyponatremia or hypovolemia are more susceptible to developing reversible renal insufficiency when given an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE Inhibitors) and diuretic therapy concomitantly.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. In some patients, this may be desirable, but orthostatic hypotension may occur. Patients with hyponatremia or hypovolemia are more susceptible to developing reversible renal insufficiency when given an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE Inhibitors) and diuretic therapy concomitantly.
Ramipril: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. In some patients, this may be desirable, but orthostatic hypotension may occur. Patients with hyponatremia or hypovolemia are more susceptible to developing reversible renal insufficiency when given an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE Inhibitors) and diuretic therapy concomitantly.
Regular Insulin: (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, like insulins. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia.
Regular Insulin; Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, like insulins. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia.
Repaglinide: (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, like meglitinides. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia.
Rocuronium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and indapamide may prolong neuromuscular blockade, possibly due to hypokalemia or alterations in potassium concentrations across the end-plate membrane.
Sacubitril; Valsartan: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. In some patients, this may be desirable, but orthostatic hypotension may occur. Angiotensin II receptor antagonists tend to reverse the potassium loss, but not the serum uric acid rise associated with thiazide diuretic monotherapy.
Salicylates: (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal toxicity in patients receiving diuretics because salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin synthesis, which can lead to fluid retention and increased peripheral vascular resistance.
Salsalate: (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal toxicity in patients receiving diuretics because salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin synthesis, which can lead to fluid retention and increased peripheral vascular resistance.
sAXagliptin: (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, like saxagliptin. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia.
Semaglutide: (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, like incretin mimetics. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia.
Serdexmethylphenidate; Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents such as indapamide. Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidate derivatives and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives.
Serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) use; consider discontinuing the SNRI if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Sertraline: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and sertraline use; consider discontinuing sertraline if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Silodosin: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
SITagliptin: (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, like sitagliptin. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia.
Sodium Phosphate Monobasic Monohydrate; Sodium Phosphate Dibasic Anhydrous: (Moderate) Concomitant use of medicines with potential to alter renal perfusion or function such as indapamide may increase the risk of acute phosphate nephropathy in patients receiving sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate; sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous.
Sodium picosulfate; Magnesium oxide; Anhydrous citric acid: (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as diuretics. In addition, use caution in patients receiving drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk.
Spironolactone: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. This may be desirable, but occasionally orthostatic hypotension may occur. Dosages should be adjusted based on clinical response.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. This may be desirable, but occasionally orthostatic hypotension may occur. Dosages should be adjusted based on clinical response.
Succinylcholine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and indapamide may prolong neuromuscular blockade, possibly due to hypokalemia or alterations in potassium concentrations across the end-plate membrane.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when indapamide is administered with sufentanil. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Sulfonylureas: (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, like sulfonylureas. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia.
Sulindac: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
Tapentadol: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when indapamide is administered with tapentadol. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Tazarotene: (Moderate) The manufacturer states that tazarotene should be administered with caution in patients who are also taking drugs known to be photosensitizers, such as thiazide diuretics, as concomitant use may augment phototoxicity. Patients should take care and use proper techniques to limit sunlight and UV exposure of treated areas.
Telmisartan: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. In some patients, this may be desirable, but orthostatic hypotension may occur. Angiotensin II receptor antagonists tend to reverse the potassium loss, but not the serum uric acid rise associated with thiazide diuretic monotherapy.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. In some patients, this may be desirable, but orthostatic hypotension may occur. Angiotensin II receptor antagonists tend to reverse the potassium loss, but not the serum uric acid rise associated with thiazide diuretic monotherapy.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. In some patients, this may be desirable, but orthostatic hypotension may occur. Angiotensin II receptor antagonists tend to reverse the potassium loss, but not the serum uric acid rise associated with thiazide diuretic monotherapy.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. In some patients, this may be desirable, but orthostatic hypotension may occur. Angiotensin II receptor antagonists tend to reverse the potassium loss, but not the serum uric acid rise associated with thiazide diuretic monotherapy.
Thiazolidinediones: (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, such as thiazolidinediones. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia.
Thioridazine: (Moderate) Indapamide may cause electrolyte disturbances, which may increase the potential for proarrhythmic effects of selected phenothiazines.
Thiothixene: (Moderate) Thiothixene should be used cautiously in patients receiving antihypertensive agents. Additive hypotensive effects are possible.
Tirzepatide: (Moderate) A potential pharmacodynamic interaction exists between indapamide and antidiabetic agents, like incretin mimetics. Indapamide can decrease insulin sensitivity thereby leading to glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia. Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may also lead to hyperglycemia.
tiZANidine: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. This may be desirable, but occasionally orthostatic hypotension may occur. Dosages should be adjusted based on clinical response.
Tolmetin: (Moderate) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may reduce the natriuretic effect of diuretics in some patients. NSAIDS have been associated with an inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which may result in reduced renal blood flow leading to renal insufficiency and increases in blood pressure that are often accompanied by peripheral edema and weight gain. Patients taking diuretics and NSAIDS concurrently are at higher risk of developing renal insufficiency. If an NSAID and a diuretic are used concurrently, carefully monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of decreased renal function and diuretic efficacy.
traMADol: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when indapamide is administered with tramadol. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased diuretic efficacy and additive orthostatic hypotension when indapamide is administered with tramadol. Adjustments to diuretic therapy may be needed in some patients. The efficacy of diuretics may be reduced due to opioid-induced release of antidiuretic hormone.
Trandolapril: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. In some patients, this may be desirable, but orthostatic hypotension may occur. Patients with hyponatremia or hypovolemia are more susceptible to developing reversible renal insufficiency when given an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE Inhibitors) and diuretic therapy concomitantly.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. In some patients, this may be desirable, but orthostatic hypotension may occur. Patients with hyponatremia or hypovolemia are more susceptible to developing reversible renal insufficiency when given an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE Inhibitors) and diuretic therapy concomitantly.
Tranylcypromine: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may be seen when MAOIs are combined with antihypertensives. Monitor blood pressure during concurrent therapy of MAOIs with diuretics such as indapamide.
Triamcinolone: (Moderate) Additive hypokalemia may occur when indapamide is coadministered with other drugs with a significant risk of hypokalemia such as systemic corticosteroids. Coadminister with caution and careful monitoring.
Triamterene: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. This may be desirable, but occasionally orthostatic hypotension may occur. Dosages should be adjusted based on clinical response.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. This may be desirable, but occasionally orthostatic hypotension may occur. Dosages should be adjusted based on clinical response.
Trifluoperazine: (Moderate) Indapamide may cause electrolyte disturbances, which may increase the potential for proarrhythmic effects of selected phenothiazines.
Valsartan: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. In some patients, this may be desirable, but orthostatic hypotension may occur. Angiotensin II receptor antagonists tend to reverse the potassium loss, but not the serum uric acid rise associated with thiazide diuretic monotherapy.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) The effects of indapamide may be additive when administered with other antihypertensive agents or diuretics. In some patients, this may be desirable, but orthostatic hypotension may occur. Angiotensin II receptor antagonists tend to reverse the potassium loss, but not the serum uric acid rise associated with thiazide diuretic monotherapy.
Vecuronium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and indapamide may prolong neuromuscular blockade, possibly due to hypokalemia or alterations in potassium concentrations across the end-plate membrane.
Venlafaxine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hyponatremia during concomitant diuretic and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) use; consider discontinuing the SNRI if symptomatic hyponatremia occurs and institute appropriate medical intervention. Concomitant use increases the risk for developing hyponatremia.
Vortioxetine: (Moderate) Patients receiving a diuretic during treatment with vortioxetine may be at greater risk of developing syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). Clinically significant hyponatremia has been reported during therapy with vortioxetine. One case involving serum sodium levels lower than 110 mmol/l has occurred. Hyponatremia may be potentiated by agents which can cause sodium depletion such as diuretics. Discontinuation of vortioxetine should be considered in patients who develop symptomatic hyponatremia.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  Hypovolemia and dehydration can occur during indapamide therapy. The risk of such events is increased when large doses are administered, when patients are experiencing excessive vomiting or diarrhea, or when the drug is given to patients with a restricted sodium intake. Hypovolemia can cause orthostatic hypotension and/or hemoconcentration, which can cause circulatory collapse or thromboembolic events, especially in geriatric or chronic cardiac patients. Abrupt declines in renal blood flow and glomerular filtration rates also have been reported, with rapid or excessive diuresis that is evidenced by sudden weight loss. Symptoms of mild to moderate dehydration include thirst, xerostomia, sinus tachycardia, and oliguria. Fluid replacement will usually restore plasma volume to normal values. Blood pressure should be determined regularly.Hypokalemia is one of the most common adverse effects associated with thiazide diuretic therapy and may lead to cardiac arrhythmias. Symptoms associated with hypokalemia include myasthenia, ileus, QT prolongation, ST-T wave changes, muscle paralysis, polyuria, and cardiac arrest. Patients receiving indapamide therapy may require supplemental potassium to prevent hypokalemia. Hypokalemia is especially important to consider in patients receiving cardiac glycoside therapy because hypokalemia increases the risk of digitalis toxicity. Hyperaldosteronism, secondary to cirrhosis or nephrosis, can predispose a patient to developing hypokalemia during indapamide therapy. Low dietary-potassium intake, potassium-wasting diseases, or administration of potassium-wasting drugs also can predispose a patient to developing indapamide-induced hypokalemia. Hypokalemia can produce impaired glucose tolerance, glycosuria, and hyperglycemia in diabetic patients. Although not reported, hypomagnesemia is often associated with cases of hypokalemia and magnesium levels should be monitored. Increased sodium load at the distal renal tubule indirectly increases potassium excretion via the sodium-potassium exchange mechanism, hypokalemia and hypochloremia can occur, leading to mild metabolic alkalosis. Symptoms of metabolic alkalosis include mental confusion, asterixis, and obtundation.Patients receiving indapamide can develop a dilutional hyponatremia, but it usually is asymptomatic and moderate. Withdrawal of the drug or sodium supplementation typically will return the serum sodium concentration to normal. Geriatric patients and patients with edematous states are especially susceptible to this effect, and care should be taken when indapamide is administered to these patients. Some symptoms of hyponatremia include lethargy, confusion, disorientation, anorexia, and cramps. In severe cases of hyponatremia (Na+ < 120 mmol/l) seizures, hemiparesis, and coma may occur.Other electrolyte disturbances reported infrequently during indapamide therapy include hyperuricemia, hypercalcemia, and hypophosphatemia. Uric acid concentrations also may rise during therapy with indapamide; hyperuricemia can occur independently of a change in renal function.Diuretics, particularly thiazide and loop diuretics, have been shown to cause hypercholesterolemia, hypertriglyceridemia, as well as increased plasma concentrations of LDLs. Some studies have suggested that these effects may decrease or cease with long-term therapy, and are not clinically important. Indapamide was reported to not increase triglycerides in a recent meta-analysis.Occasionally, azotemia can occur during indapamide therapy. This effect is usually a manifestation of dehydration, but indapamide therapy reportedly has caused an allergic interstitial nephritis resulting in reversible renal failure; this effect has occurred mainly in patients with preexisting renal disease.Adverse nervous system effects associated with indapamide therapy include dizziness, lightheadedness, vertigo, headache, lethargy, paresthesias, and nervousness. Indapamide has also been rarely associated with impotence (erectile dysfunction), and libido decrease. Fatigue, irritability, agitation and tension have been reported during indapamide therapy.Maculopapular rash, occasionally accompanied by fever, urticaria, pruritus, and/or necrotizing vasculitis have been reported during indapamide therapy. Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, and purpura have also been reported rarely during indapamide therapy. Photosensitivity has been reported and patients should use appropriate protection when exposed to sunlight or UV light.Hepatitis, intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice, pancreatitis, and elevated hepatic enzymes have been reported with indapamide post-marketing experience. These reactions were reversible with discontinuance of the drug.Indapamide treatment can also cause blurred vision, xanthopsia, anaphylactoid reactions, hematological reactions, and respiratory distress.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    hypovolemia, orthostatic hypotension
    General Information
    Hypovolemia and dehydration can occur during indapamide therapy. The risk of such events is increased when large doses are administered, when patients are experiencing excessive vomiting or diarrhea, or when the drug is given to patients with a restricted sodium intake. Hypovolemia can cause orthostatic hypotension and/or hemoconcentration, which can cause circulatory collapse or thromboembolic events, especially in geriatric or chronic cardiac patients. During clinical trials, orthostatic hypotension was reported in < 5% of patients. Abrupt declines in renal blood flow and glomerular filtration rates also have been reported, with rapid or excessive diuresis that is evidenced by sudden weight loss. Symptoms of mild to moderate dehydration include thirst, dry mouth, sinus tachycardia, and oliguria. Fluid replacement will usually restore plasma volume to normal values. Blood pressure should be determined regularly.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypovolemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      orthostatic hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    glycosuria, hyperglycemia, hypochloremia, hypokalemia, palpitations, premature ventricular contractions (PVCs)
    General Information
    Hypokalemia is one of the most common adverse effects associated with thiazide diuretic therapy. During indapamide clinical trials, 20% of patients receiving 1.25 mg, 71% of those receiving 5 mg, and 80% of those receiving 10 mg had at least one serum potassium concentration below 2.4 mEq/l. Symptoms associated with hypokalemia include myasthenia, ileus, QT prolongation, ST-T wave changes, muscle paralysis, and cardiac arrest. During clinical trials, premature ventricular contractions (PVCs), irregular heart beat, and palpitations were reported in < 5% of patients. Supplemental potassium may be needed during treatment to prevent hypokalemia. Hypokalemia is especially important to consider in patients receiving cardiac glycoside therapy because hypokalemia increases the risk of digitalis toxicity. Hyperaldosteronism, secondary to cirrhosis or nephrosis, can predispose a patient to developing hypokalemia during indapamide therapy. Low dietary-potassium intake, potassium-wasting diseases, or administration of potassium-wasting drugs also can predispose a patient to developing indapamide-induced hypokalemia. Hypokalemia can produce impaired glucose tolerance, glycosuria, and hyperglycemia in diabetic patients (reported in < 5% of patients in trials ). Although not reported, hypomagnesemia is often associated with cases of hypokalemia and magnesium levels should be monitored. Increased sodium load at the distal renal tubule indirectly increases potassium excretion via the sodium-potassium exchange mechanism, hypokalemia and hypochloremia can occur, leading to mild metabolic alkalosis. Hypochloremia was reported in < 5% of patients during trials. Symptoms of metabolic alkalosis include mental confusion, asterixis, and obtundation.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      glycosuria
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperglycemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypochloremia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypokalemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      palpitations
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      premature ventricular contractions (PVCs)
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    hyponatremia
    General Information
    Patients receiving indapamide can develop a dilutional hyponatremia, but it usually is asymptomatic and moderate. During clinical trials, hyponatremia was reported in < 5% of patients. Withdrawal of the drug or sodium supplementation typically will return the serum sodium concentration to normal. Geriatric patients and patients with edematous states are especially susceptible to this effect, and care should be taken when indapamide is administered to these patients. Some symptoms of hyponatremia include lethargy, confusion, disorientation, anorexia, and cramps. In severe cases of hyponatremia (Na+ < 120 mmol/L) seizures, hemiparesis, and coma may occur.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyponatremia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hypercalcemia, hyperuricemia, hypophosphatemia
    General Information
    Other electrolyte disturbances reported infrequently during indapamide therapy include hyperuricemia, hypercalcemia, and hypophosphatemia. Uric acid concentrations also may rise during therapy with indapamide; hyperuricemia can occur independently of a change in renal function.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypercalcemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hyperuricemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hypophosphatemia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    hypercholesterolemia, hypertriglyceridemia
    General Information
    Diuretics, particularly thiazide and loop diuretics, have been shown to cause hypercholesterolemia, hypertriglyceridemia, as well as increased plasma concentrations of LDLs. Some studies have suggested that these effects may decrease or cease with long-term therapy, and are not clinically important. Indapamide was reported to not increase triglycerides in a recent meta-analysis.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypercholesterolemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hypertriglyceridemia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    azotemia, increased urinary frequency, interstitial nephritis, nocturia, polyuria
    General Information
    Renal adverse reactions reported in < 5% of patients during clinical trials include nocturia, polyuria, increased urinary frequency, and increase in serum creatinine and BUN. Occasionally, azotemia can occur during indapamide therapy. This effect is usually a manifestation of dehydration, but indapamide therapy reportedly has caused an allergic interstitial nephritis resulting in reversible renal failure; this effect has occurred mainly in patients with preexisting renal disease.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      azotemia
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      interstitial nephritis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      increased urinary frequency
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      nocturia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      polyuria
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    agitation, anxiety, depression, dizziness, drowsiness, fatigue, headache, hypertonia, impotence (erectile dysfunction), insomnia, irritability, libido decrease, malaise, muscle cramps, paresthesias, vertigo, weakness
    General Information
    Adverse nervous system effects reported in >= 5% of patients during indapamide therapy include dizziness, headache, lethargy, fatigue, weakness, malaise, muscle cramps, muscle spasm, anxiety, irritability, agitation, and paresthesias. Lightheadedness, drowsiness, hypertonia, vertigo, insomnia, depression, impotence (erectile dysfunction), libido decrease, and blurred vision were reported in < 5% of patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      agitation
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      impotence (erectile dysfunction)
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      libido decrease
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vertigo
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypertonia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anxiety
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      depression
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      irritability
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      malaise
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      muscle cramps
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      paresthesias
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      weakness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
    Headline
    anaphylactoid reactions, bullous rash, fever, maculopapular rash, photosensitivity, pruritus, purpura, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria, vasculitis
    General Information
    Maculopapular rash, occasionally accompanied by fever, urticaria, pruritus, and/or necrotizing vasculitis have been reported in < 5% of patients receiving indapamide therapy. Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, bullous rash, anaphylactoid reactions, and purpura have also been reported rarely during indapamide therapy. Photosensitivity has been reported and patients should use appropriate protection when exposed to sunlight or UV light.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      maculopapular rash
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      photosensitivity
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      purpura
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      Stevens-Johnson syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      toxic epidermal necrolysis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vasculitis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      bullous rash
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatitis, jaundice, pancreatitis
    General Information
    Hepatitis, intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice, pancreatitis, and elevated hepatic enzymes have been reported with indapamide post-marketing experience. These reactions were reversible with discontinuance of the drug.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hepatitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      jaundice
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      pancreatitis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, gastritis, nausea, vomiting, weight loss, xerostomia
    General Information
    Gastrointestinal adverse reactions reported in < 5% of patients receiving indapamide include anorexia, abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, xerostomia (dry mouth), weight loss, gastritis, nausea, and vomiting.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspepsia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      gastritis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      weight loss
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia
    General Information
    Hematologic reactions reported with indapamide use include agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, leukopenia, and thrombocytopenia.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      agranulocytosis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      aplastic anemia
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      leukopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    cough, pharyngitis, rhinitis, rhinorrhea, sinusitis
    General Information
    During clinical trials of indapamide, rhinitis was reported in >= 5% of patients. Other respiratory adverse reactions reported in < 5% of patients include rhinorrhea, cough, pharyngitis, and sinusitis.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pharyngitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      rhinitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      rhinorrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      sinusitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    asthenia, back pain, chest pain (unspecified), flushing, infection
    General Information
    General adverse reactions reported in >= 5% of patients during indapamide clinical trials include infection, flushing, pain, and back pain. Asthenia, flu-like symptoms, and chest pain (unspecified) were reported in < 5% of patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      back pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      chest pain (unspecified)
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      flushing
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    myopia, ocular hypertension, ocular pain, visual impairment
    General Information
    Indapamide may result in ophthalmic adverse reactions. Indapamide can cause an idiosyncratic reaction, resulting in acute angle-closure glaucoma and ocular hypertension (elevated intraocular pressure) with or without a noticeable acute myopic shift and/or choroidal effusions. Symptoms include acute onset of decreased visual acuity or ocular pain and typically occur within hours to weeks of drug initiation. Untreated acute angle-closure glaucoma can lead to permanent visual impairment or loss. Discontinue indapamide as rapidly as possible and consider prompt medical or surgical treatment if the ocular hypertension remains uncontrolled. Risk factors for the development of acute-closure glaucoma may include a history of sulfonamide or penicillin allergy. Choroidal effusion, acute myopia, and acute angle-closure glaucoma have been reported with postmarketing use of indapamide.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      myopia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      ocular hypertension
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      ocular pain
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      visual impairment
      Severity
      Severe

Description
  Text
  Indapamide is an oral antihypertensive and diuretic. Although it is a sulfonamide-type diuretic similar to thiazides, indapamide was the first in the class of antihypertensive/diuretics called the indolines. Although some experts believe attaining goal blood pressure is most important in patients with diabetes mellitus, a recent large, randomized, placebo-controlled trial (ADVANCE, n=11,140) has reported that the administration of a fixed combination of perindopril and indapamide to a broad range of patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus is associated with reduced risks of major vascular events, including death. After a mean follow-up of 4.3 years, 15.5% of patients in the active treatment group vs. 16.8% in the placebo group had a major macrovascular or microvascular event (relative risk reduction, 9%; 95% CI, 0.83—1.0; p=0.041). Cardiovascular death was significantly lower in the active treatment group vs. placebo group (3.8% vs. 4.6%; 95% CI, 0.68—0.98; p=0.03). Death from any cause also was significantly lower in the active treatment group vs. placebo group (7.3% vs. 8.5%; 95% CI 0.75—0.98; p=0.03). Indapamide was approved by the FDA in 1983.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Although the mechanism of action is not clear, indapamide appears to act principally on the distal convoluted tubules of the nephron. The drug enhances the excretion of sodium, chloride, and water by inhibiting the transport of sodium ions across the renal tubule. The hypovolemic action of indapamide is believed to be responsible for the drug's beneficial cardiovascular effects. Decreased plasma and extracellular fluid volume, along with a decreased peripheral vascular resistance (secondary to loss of sodium, or to vascular autoregulatory feedback systems), act to lower blood pressure in hypertensive patients who are receiving indapamide. The drug may also produce calcium-channel blockade in smooth muscle cells, thereby causing arteriolar vasodilation. In general, diuretics worsen glucose tolerance and exert detrimental effects on the lipid profile. Indapamide, however, appears to reduce LVH and not exert detrimental effects on either glucose tolerance or serum lipids.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Following oral administration, indapamide is completely absorbed from the GI tract. Absorption is not affected by food or antacids.
  Text
  Indapamide is administered orally. Due to its lipophilic nature, indapamide distributes widely throughout the body tissues and is 71—79% plasma protein-bound. It preferentially and reversibly distributes to erythrocytes, which leads to higher levels in whole blood as compared to plasma. It is not known whether the drug crosses the placenta or is distributed into breast milk. Indapamide undergoes hepatic metabolism, with 60% of a dose being excreted in the urine within 48 hours, and between 16—23% being excreted in the feces via the bile. The elimination half-life is 14—18 hours. The pharmacokinetics of indapamide are not altered by hemodialysis.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Administer as a single dose in the morning.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    5 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    5 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Dosage reduction may be needed; indapamide is extensively metabolized in the liver. Use with caution in patients with hepatic disease since minor alterations of fluid and electrolyte balance may precipitate hepatic coma.
  Renal Impairment
  CrCl >= 30 mL/min: no dosage adjustment needed.
CrCl < 30 mL/min: do not use, indapamide is less effective as renal function declines.
 
Intermittent Hemodialysis:
Avoid use; indapamide is ineffective in end-stage renal disease. Indapamide is not removed by hemodialysis.
