=== Carbidopa/Levodopa/Entacapone (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 2797)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone is a combination product for the treatment of idiopathic Parkinson's disease in adult patients who experience the end-of dose 'wearing off' effect of levodopa.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: Do not exceed 1 tablet of carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone per dose. Daily limits: 300 mg/day PO carbidopa; 1,200 mg/day PO levodopa; 1,600 mg/day PO of entacapone. The maximum for tablets (50-, 75-, 100- or 150-mg of levodopa) is 8 tablets/day PO. The maximum...

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): dyskinesia, dystonic reaction, hyperkinesis, involuntary movements, dysgeusia, gi bleeding, hiccups, peptic ulcer, pyrosis (heartburn), teeth grinding (bruxism), weight gain, weight loss, elevated creatine kinase, myalgia, rhabdomyolysis, alopecia, angioedema, bullous rash, flushing, hyperhidrosis, pruritus, rash (unspecified), urticaria, ataxia, dizziness, drowsiness, headache, insomnia, libido increase, memory impairment

In an Overdose: Combining multiple tablets or portions of tablets to achieve a higher levodopa dose may lead to an overdose of the entacapone component.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: NOTE: This monograph discusses the combination product Carbidopa;

Brand Names
  - Stalevo

Dosage Forms
  - Carbidopa 12.5mg, Levodopa 50mg, Entacapone 200mg Oral tablet
  - Carbidopa 18.75mg, Levodopa 75mg, Entacapone 200mg Oral tablet
  - Carbidopa 25mg, Levodopa 100mg, Entacapone 200mg Oral tablet
  - Carbidopa 31.25mg, Levodopa 125mg, Entacapone 200mg Oral tablet
  - Carbidopa 37.5mg, Levodopa 150mg, Entacapone 200mg Oral tablet
  - Carbidopa 50mg, Levodopa 200mg, Entacapone 200mg Oral tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  General Information
  NOTE: This monograph discusses the combination product Carbidopa; Levodopa; Entacapone. Clinicians may wish to consult the individual monographs for more information about each agent.
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        12.5 to 50 mg carbidopa/50 to 200 mg levodopa/200 mg entacapone up to 8 times daily. Max: 1,600 mg/day entacapone. Convert persons currently treated with entacapone 200 mg with each dose of immediate-release carbidopa/levodopa to the equivalent dose of carbidopa/levodopa/entacapone. When converting persons with a history of moderate or severe dyskinesias or taking more than 600 mg/day of levodopa without entacapone, a levodopa dose reduction is likely to be needed when entacapone is added. Because dose adjustment of the individual carbidopa or levodopa component is not possible with fixed-dose products, initially titrate to a dose that is tolerated and meets individual therapeutic need using a separate carbidopa/levodopa tablet (1:4 ratio) plus an entacapone tablet. Once the individual dose of carbidopa/levodopa plus entacapone dose has been established using separate tablets, conversion to a corresponding single tablet of carbidopa/levodopa/entacapone may occur. When less levodopa is required, reduce the total daily dosage of carbidopa/levodopa either by decreasing the strength of carbidopa/levodopa/entacapone at each administration or by decreasing the frequency of administration by extending the interval between doses. There is no experience in converting from extended-release carbidopa/levodopa or carbidopa/levodopa products that are not combined in a 1:4 ratio of carbidopa to levodopa. To discontinue carbidopa/levodopa/entacapone, reduce dose gradually; tapering of entacapone has not been systematically evaluated.
    Heading
    For the treatment of Parkinson disease

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  NOTE: This monograph discusses the combination product Carbidopa; Levodopa; Entacapone. Clinicians may wish to consult the individual monographs for more information about each agent.
 
The administration of carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone is contraindicated in any patient who has demonstrated a hypersensitivity to carbidopa, levodopa, entacapone, or any inactive ingredients in the formulation.
 
Standard drugs typically given for Parkinson's disease may be administered while carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone is being given; however, dosage adjustments of any agent may be required based on the patient's clinical status. While carbidopa decreases the peripheral adverse effects due to decarboxylation of levodopa (i.e., nausea and vomiting), carbidopa does not decrease the central adverse effects of levodopa. Carbidopa as well as as entacapone allow more levodopa to reach the brain and more dopamine to be formed; therefore, dyskinesia may occur at lower dosages and sooner vs. levodopa given alone. The occurrence of dyskinesias may require a dosage reduction.
 
Avoid abrupt discontinuation of carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone therapy. Sporadic cases of a symptom complex resembling neuroleptic malignant syndrome have been associated with dose reductions and withdrawal of carbidopa; levodopa as well as entacapone therapy. Patients should be closely monitored if abrupt reduction or discontinuation of carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone therapy is required, especially if they are also receiving neuroleptics. Patients should be observed closely for manifestations of this symptom complex including tachycardia, muscular rigidity, elevation of body temperature, mental status changes, diaphoresis, tachypnea, and increases in serum creatinine levels. If the patient requires general anesthesia for surgery, carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone may be continued as long as the patient is permitted to take fluids and medication by mouth. Cases of neuroleptic malignant syndrome have been reported post-surgery so close monitoring is warranted; re-institute carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone therapy as soon as possible post-surgery. In addition, some patients receiving levodopa have experienced postoperative bleeding episodes, so hematological studies are recommended for all patients who undergo surgery while receiving this drug. Patients should inform their surgeon and anesthesiologist of the use of entacapone prior to surgery. COMT inhibitors may interact with some medications used in surgical procedures (see Drug Interactions).
 
The administration of non-selective MAOI therapy is contraindicated with carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone (see Drug Interactions). Concomitant use of non-selective MAOIs with carbidopa-levodopa combinations can result in hypertensive crisis. Non-selective MAOIs should be discontinued 2—4 weeks before initiation of carbidopa-levodopa combination therapy (see Drug Interactions).
 
Carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone combinations can cause mental status changes or nervous system changes. All patients receiving the drug should be monitored closely for changes in thought processes including depression and/or suicidal ideation. Carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone should be used with caution in patients with a history of a seizure disorder or known psychosis or other psychiatric illness. Seizures have been reported with the use of carbidopa; levodopa, but causality is not known. 
 
Carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone has not been studied in elderly patients older than 75 years of age. The elderly may be more susceptible to the CNS effects of levodopa, especially when initiating therapy or increasing dosages.
 
Carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone is contraindicated for use in patients with closed-angle glaucoma. Patients with chronic open-angle glaucoma may be treated cautiously with carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone if intraocular pressure is controlled and monitored.
 
According to the manufacturer, carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone should be administered cautiously to patients with severe cardiac disease (i.e., severe coronary artery disease, thromboembolic disease, heart failure). In patients with a history of myocardial infarction who have residual cardiac arrhythmias such as atrial, nodal or ventricular arrhythmias, cardiac function should be monitored carefully during the initial levodopa dosage adjustment in a facility with intensive cardiac care.
 
Use carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone with caution in patients with peptic ulcer disease. Levodopa therapy may increase the risk of upper GI bleeding in patients with a peptic ulcer disease history.
 
Patients should be warned against driving or operating machinery until they know how carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone affects them. Because of the possibility of additive sedative effects, caution should be used when patients are taking other CNS depressants in combination with entacapone (see Drug Interactions).
 
According to the manufacturer, carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone should be administered cautiously to patients with severe pulmonary disease, such as bronchial asthma, emphysema, status asthmaticus, or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Carbidopa-levodopa should also be used with caution in patients with a history of lung disease using sympathomimetic therapies; levodopa has additional sympathomimetic effects. Because levodopa may alter breathing patterns or respiratory rates in some patients, it should be used under careful observation in patients with severe pulmonary disease.
 
Use carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone with caution in patients with renal disease, or renal impairment (including renal failure). Levodopa has been shown to increase growth hormone levels, but the clinical significance of this is not known.
 
Use carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone with caution in patients with endocrine disease (i.e., diabetes mellitus.) When a test tape is used for determination of ketonuria in patients taking carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone, a false positive test may result. Additionally, false negative tests may result with the use of glucose-oxidase methods of testing for glucosuria.
 
Patients with hepatic disease should be treated with caution; carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone dosage adjustments may be necessary. The AUC and Cmax of entacapone approximately doubled in patients with documented hepatic disease as compared to controls. Since biliary excretion is the major route of elimination of entacapone, patients with biliary obstruction, biliary tract disease, biliary cirrhosis or associated symptoms (i.e., jaundice) should be treated cautiously.
 
Carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone is contraindicated in any patient with a suspicious, undiagnosed skin lesion or a history of melanoma. Levodopa may activate malignant melanoma.
 
Some patients receiving medications that increase dopaminergic tone have reported intense and uncontrollable urges to gamble, increased sexual urges, or other intense urges. Causality due to dopaminergic agents has not been established; however, in some cases the urges stopped after the dose was reduced or the drug was discontinued. Practitioners should inquire periodically about new or worsening urges in patients receiving carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone. Likewise, patients should be instructed to report such changes while receiving carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone. Dose reduction or discontinuation should be considered in those who experience these effects.
 
Caution should be exercised when prescribing carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone to Parkinson's patients who are more prone to orthostatic hypotension or syncope. Syncope and/or orthostatic hypotension have been reported in roughly 1% of patients treated with both entacapone and placebo. Entacapone enhances levodopa bioavailability and, therefore, may increase the occurrence of orthostatic hypotension or syncope.
 
Carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone is classified as FDA pregnancy risk category C. Although no adequate human studies have examined the effects of this drug on the fetus, animal reproduction studies have shown adverse fetal effects due to levodopa or carbidopa; levodopa administration as well as entacapone treatment. Levodopa does cross the placenta. Limited case reports are available describing the use of carbidopa-levodopa combinations in human pregnancy. Therefore, in making the decision to administer this drug during pregnancy, the potential risks to the fetus must be weighed against the potential benefits to the mother.
 
 Carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone should be avoided in breast-feeding women. Carbidopa distributes into breast milk in small amounts. It is not known if levodopa is distributed into breast milk, however, levodopa inhibits lactation by inhibiting prolactin release. The suppression of milk production by levodopa may be partial or complete. It is unknown if entacapone is excreted in human milk; however it is excreted into maternal milk in rats.
 
The safety and efficacy of carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone in children and adolescents less than 18 years of age has not been established.
 
Rarely, falsely diagnosed pheochromocytoma has been reported in patients receiving carbidopa-levodopa. Caution should be exercised with interpreting the plasma and urine levels of catecholamines and catecholamine metabolites in patients on carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    dyskinesia
    General Information
    Carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone treatment may cause or exacerbate pre-existing dyskinesia more quickly or at lower doses than those observed with carbidopa and levodopa alone. If worsening of dyskinesias occurs during treatment, a reduction in dose or discontinuation of treatment may be necessary. In addition, cases of severe rhabdomyolysis have been reported with carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone, which may be related to severe, prolonged motor activity, including dyskinesia.
    Headline
    hypotension
    General Information
    Caution should be exercised when prescribing carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone to Parkinson patients who are prone to hypotension or orthostatic hypotension. Syncope and/or orthostatic hypotension have been reported with drugs that increase dopaminergic tone, including levodopa; carbidopa; entacapone. Reports of syncope were generally more frequent in patients in both treatment groups who had a prior episode of documented hypotension.
    Headline
    depression, psychotic disorder, suicidal ideation
    General Information
    The use of carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone can increase the risk of hallucinations and psychosis. Patients with a psychotic disorder should not be treated with carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone due to the risk of exacerbating psychosis. In addition, medications that antagonize the effects of dopamine used to treat psychosis may exacerbate the symptoms of Parkinson disease and may decrease the effectiveness of levodopa. People receiving carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone should be monitored closely for psychiatric effects, including depression and concomitant suicidal ideation; patients with a history of depression should be assessed closely for worsening of these symptoms. Dose adjustments or discontinuation of treatment may be necessary to mitigate psychiatric effects.
    Headline
    activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery, sleep disorder
    General Information
    Carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone has the potential to cause drowsiness or somnolence. In some cases, excessive drowsiness has resulted in automobile accidents or other harmful events in the course of daily living. Advise patients of this effect and be instructed to use extreme caution when driving or operating machinery or performing other activities requiring coordination and concentration while receiving carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone therapy. Reassessment for drowsiness or oversedation is necessary throughout therapy, as these symptoms may go unnoticed unless specifically asked about. Inform patients of the risk of sudden sleep before starting therapy and advise them to avoid hazardous activities, especially if they have a sleep disorder (e.g., narcolepsy, sleep apnea) or are taking alcohol or other CNS depressants, as these factors may increase the risk of sudden sleep onset. If a patient develops significant daytime sleepiness or episodes of falling asleep during activities that require active participation (e.g., conversations, eating, etc.), consider discontinuation of the medication. There is insufficient data to establish if dose reduction will eliminate sudden episodes of falling asleep.
    Headline
    biliary obstruction, hepatic disease
    General Information
    Carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone should be administered cautiously to individuals with biliary obstruction or hepatic disease, as biliary excretion appears to be the major route of excretion of entacapone and hepatic impairment significantly increases entacapone exposure. As with any therapy containing levodopa, periodic evaluation of hepatic function is recommended during extended therapy, as elevated hepatic enzymes may occur during treatment.
    Headline
    closed-angle glaucoma
    General Information
    Carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone is contraindicated for use in people with closed-angle glaucoma.
    Headline
    peptic ulcer disease
    General Information
    Use carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone with caution in people with peptic ulcer disease. Levodopa may increase the risk of upper GI bleeding in individuals with a peptic ulcer disease history.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no adequate or well-controlled studies regarding fetal developmental risks associated with carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone administration in human pregnancy. Limited data suggest that carbidopa crosses human placenta in low concentrations. Levodopa crosses the placenta and reaches levels in the fetus comparable to maternal blood, although pregnancy outcomes have been primarily unremarkable. Two first trimester miscarriages were reported during the use of carbidopa; levodopa, and 1 infant exposed to levodopa in utero developed osteomalacia. One case of neonatal seizure occurred after use of bromocriptine plus carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone during pregnancy. Maternal complications reported in 3 pregnancies during use of carbidopa; levodopa included first trimester vaginal bleeding, third trimester nausea and vomiting, depression, and preeclampsia. Patients should be instructed to notify their physicians if they become pregnant or intend to become pregnant during therapy. In animal studies, administration of carbidopa; levodopa or entacapone was associated with fetal toxicities (e.g., visceral and skeletal malformations, decreased live births, fetal eye anomalies) at doses above the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD).
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone with caution during breast-feeding. Consider the developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding along with the clinical needs of the patient and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from the medication or the patient's underlying condition. It is not known whether entacapone and carbidopa are excreted in human milk; however, they are excreted in rat milk. Levodopa has been detected in human milk. In a case report of a breast-feeding individual with Parkinson disease receiving sustained-release (SR) carbidopa; levodopa 50/200 mg 4 times daily, peak levels of levodopa in milk occurred 3 hours after a dose and returned to baseline after 6 hours. After receiving the same dose of the immediate-release (IR) formulation, similar results were observed, except for a higher milk to plasma ratio with the IR product (0.32 vs. 0.28). The infant ingested 0.127 mg and 0.181 mg of levodopa after maternal intake of the SR and IR products, respectively. It was estimated that the infant received an average of 0.3% of the maternal weight-adjusted dosage of the SR product and 0.5% of the maternal weight-adjusted dose of the IR product. Levodopa did not inhibit lactation. No adverse effects were observed in the child, whose development was normal at 2 years of age. The authors suggest that breast-feeding or pumping milk at times of lower levodopa breast milk levels may help minimize the amount of levodopa received by a child. Because levodopa can inhibit prolactin secretion, interference with lactation is possible. If carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone must be administered during breast-feeding, the child should be monitored for adverse effects such as dyskinesias, insomnia, sedation, nausea, and constipation.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no adequate or well-controlled studies regarding fetal developmental risks associated with carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone administration in human pregnancy. Limited data suggest that carbidopa crosses human placenta in low concentrations. Levodopa crosses the placenta and reaches levels in the fetus comparable to maternal blood, although pregnancy outcomes have been primarily unremarkable. Two first trimester miscarriages were reported during the use of carbidopa; levodopa, and 1 infant exposed to levodopa in utero developed osteomalacia. One case of neonatal seizure occurred after use of bromocriptine plus carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone during pregnancy. Maternal complications reported in 3 pregnancies during use of carbidopa; levodopa included first trimester vaginal bleeding, third trimester nausea and vomiting, depression, and preeclampsia. Patients should be instructed to notify their physicians if they become pregnant or intend to become pregnant during therapy. In animal studies, administration of carbidopa; levodopa or entacapone was associated with fetal toxicities (e.g., visceral and skeletal malformations, decreased live births, fetal eye anomalies) at doses above the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD).
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone with caution during breast-feeding. Consider the developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding along with the clinical needs of the patient and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from the medication or the patient's underlying condition. It is not known whether entacapone and carbidopa are excreted in human milk; however, they are excreted in rat milk. Levodopa has been detected in human milk. In a case report of a breast-feeding individual with Parkinson disease receiving sustained-release (SR) carbidopa; levodopa 50/200 mg 4 times daily, peak levels of levodopa in milk occurred 3 hours after a dose and returned to baseline after 6 hours. After receiving the same dose of the immediate-release (IR) formulation, similar results were observed, except for a higher milk to plasma ratio with the IR product (0.32 vs. 0.28). The infant ingested 0.127 mg and 0.181 mg of levodopa after maternal intake of the SR and IR products, respectively. It was estimated that the infant received an average of 0.3% of the maternal weight-adjusted dosage of the SR product and 0.5% of the maternal weight-adjusted dose of the IR product. Levodopa did not inhibit lactation. No adverse effects were observed in the child, whose development was normal at 2 years of age. The authors suggest that breast-feeding or pumping milk at times of lower levodopa breast milk levels may help minimize the amount of levodopa received by a child. Because levodopa can inhibit prolactin secretion, interference with lactation is possible. If carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone must be administered during breast-feeding, the child should be monitored for adverse effects such as dyskinesias, insomnia, sedation, nausea, and constipation.

Interactions
Acebutolol: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking COMT inhibitors. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking COMT inhibitors. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Acetaminophen; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking COMT inhibitors. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Acetaminophen; Pamabrom; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
ALFentanil: (Major) COMT inhibitors may cause additive sedation or hypotension with alfentanil. Monitor patients receiving alfentanil with other CNS depressants for hypotension and prolonged respiratory depression and sedation. In such cases of combined treatment, a dose reduction of one or both agents may be necessary. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
ALPRAZolam: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
aMILoride: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a potassium-sparing diuretic, is necessary. A potassium-sparing diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a potassium-sparing diuretic, is necessary. A potassium-sparing diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Amisulpride: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in levodopa efficacy during concomitant use of levodopa and dopamine D2 receptor antagonists, such as amisulpride. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists interfere with dopamine's actions.
Amitriptyline: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including tricyclic antidepressants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them. (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects, such as somnolence, hypertension, and dyskinesias, during concomitant use of levodopa and tricyclic antidepressants. Sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating, may also occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Amobarbital: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as barbiturates, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should avoid driving or other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drug combination are known. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as barbiturates. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Amoxapine: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as heterocyclic antidepressants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Ampicillin: (Moderate) As entacapone is primarily excreted in the bile, caution should be exercised when drugs known to interfere with biliary excretion, glucuronidation, and intestinal beta-glucuronidation, such as ampicillin, are given concurrently with entacapone.
Ampicillin; Sulbactam: (Moderate) As entacapone is primarily excreted in the bile, caution should be exercised when drugs known to interfere with biliary excretion, glucuronidation, and intestinal beta-glucuronidation, such as ampicillin, are given concurrently with entacapone.
Angiotensin II receptor antagonists: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Anxiolytics; Sedatives; and Hypnotics: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as atypical antipsychotics. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as atypical antipsychotics, interfere with dopamine's actions. (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or COMT inhibitor during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with COMT inhibitors and other Parkinson's treatments than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Use COMT inhibitors and epinephrine, regardless of route, together with caution due to potential for increased heart rate, arrhythmias, and excessive changes in blood pressure. Epinephrine is metabolized by catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT), therefore COMT inhibitors potentiate the pressor effects of epinephrine.
Asenapine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as atypical antipsychotics. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as atypical antipsychotics, interfere with dopamine's actions. (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or COMT inhibitor during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with COMT inhibitors and other Parkinson's treatments than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as barbiturates, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should avoid driving or other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drug combination are known. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as barbiturates. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including skeletal muscle relaxants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking COMT inhibitors. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including skeletal muscle relaxants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Atenolol: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Atropine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including systemic atropine, due to the possibility of additive sedation. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including systemic atropine, due to the possibility of additive sedation. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
atypical antipsychotic: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as atypical antipsychotics. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as atypical antipsychotics, interfere with dopamine's actions. (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or COMT inhibitor during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with COMT inhibitors and other Parkinson's treatments than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Azelastine: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when azelastine is combined with other CNS depressants including COMT inhibitors. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Azelastine; Fluticasone: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when azelastine is combined with other CNS depressants including COMT inhibitors. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Azilsartan: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Baclofen: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including skeletal muscle relaxants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Barbiturates: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as barbiturates, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should avoid driving or other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drug combination are known. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as barbiturates. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Belladonna; Opium: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Benazepril: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors, such as entacapone, may cause additive sedation and somnolence. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Benzodiazepines: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of levodopa and nonselective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as methylene blue, is contraindicated due to the risk for hypertensive crisis. Allow a minimum of 2 weeks to elapse following discontinuation of methylene blue before initiating levodopa.
Beta-blockers: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Betaxolol: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Bisoprolol: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Brexpiprazole: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as atypical antipsychotics. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as atypical antipsychotics, interfere with dopamine's actions. (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or COMT inhibitor during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with COMT inhibitors and other Parkinson's treatments than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Brompheniramine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in levodopa efficacy during concomitant use of levodopa and oral glycopyrrolate; a levodopa dosage adjustment may be required based on response. Concomitant use may reduce levodopa exposure.
Bumetanide: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a loop diuretic, is necessary. A loop diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Use COMT inhibitors and epinephrine, regardless of route, together with caution due to potential for increased heart rate, arrhythmias, and excessive changes in blood pressure. Epinephrine is metabolized by catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT), therefore COMT inhibitors potentiate the pressor effects of epinephrine.
Buprenorphine: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists-antagonists with other central nervous system (CNS) depressants, such as COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the effects of the opiate agonists-antagonist and may lead to additive CNS or respiratory depression. Prior to concurrent use of a mixed opiate agonist-antagonist in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. If these agents are used together, reduced dosages may be necessary. Carefully monitor the patient for hypotension and CNS depression.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists-antagonists with other central nervous system (CNS) depressants, such as COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the effects of the opiate agonists-antagonist and may lead to additive CNS or respiratory depression. Prior to concurrent use of a mixed opiate agonist-antagonist in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. If these agents are used together, reduced dosages may be necessary. Carefully monitor the patient for hypotension and CNS depression.
buPROPion: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of CNS toxicity, such as restlessness, agitation, tremor, ataxia, gait disturbance, vertigo, and dizziness, if concomitant use of levodopa and bupropion is necessary. Both medications have dopamine agonist effects and use may increase the risk for dopamine-related adverse reactions.
buPROPion; Naltrexone: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of CNS toxicity, such as restlessness, agitation, tremor, ataxia, gait disturbance, vertigo, and dizziness, if concomitant use of levodopa and bupropion is necessary. Both medications have dopamine agonist effects and use may increase the risk for dopamine-related adverse reactions.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as barbiturates, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should avoid driving or other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drug combination are known. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as barbiturates. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as barbiturates, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should avoid driving or other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drug combination are known. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as barbiturates. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as barbiturates, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should avoid driving or other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drug combination are known. (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking COMT inhibitors. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as barbiturates. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as barbiturates, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should avoid driving or other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drug combination are known. (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking COMT inhibitors. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as barbiturates. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Butorphanol: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists-antagonists with other central nervous system (CNS) depressants, such as COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the effects of the opiate agonists-antagonist and may lead to additive CNS or respiratory depression. Prior to concurrent use of a mixed opiate agonist-antagonist in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. If these agents are used together, reduced dosages may be necessary. Carefully monitor the patient for hypotension and CNS depression.
Calcium, Magnesium, Potassium, Sodium Oxybates: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sodium oxybate, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Calcium-channel blockers: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Candesartan: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Cannabidiol: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of cannabidiol and entacapone. CNS depressants can potentiate the effects of cannabidiol.
Capsaicin; Metaxalone: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including skeletal muscle relaxants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Captopril: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Carbinoxamine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Cariprazine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as atypical antipsychotics. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as atypical antipsychotics, interfere with dopamine's actions. (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or COMT inhibitor during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with COMT inhibitors and other Parkinson's treatments than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Carisoprodol: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including skeletal muscle relaxants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Carteolol: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Cenobamate: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of cenobamate and entacapone. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression. Dopaminergic agents, such as entacapone, have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Central-acting adrenergic agents: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a centrally-acting adrenergic agent, is necessary. An antihypertensive dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Cetirizine: (Moderate) Caution is recommended during concurrent use of cetirizine or levocetirizine with COMT inhibitors because of the possibility for additive sedative effects. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Caution is recommended during concurrent use of cetirizine or levocetirizine with COMT inhibitors because of the possibility for additive sedative effects. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Chlophedianol; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Chloramphenicol: (Moderate) Entacapone should be given cautiously with drugs known to interfere with biliary excretion, glucuronidation, or intestinal beta-glucuronidation such as chloramphenicol. Decreased biliary excretion of entacapone may occur if these agents are given concurrently.
Chlorcyclizine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
chlordiazePOXIDE: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including tricyclic antidepressants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them. (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects, such as somnolence, hypertension, and dyskinesias, during concomitant use of levodopa and tricyclic antidepressants. Sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating, may also occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Chlorothiazide: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking COMT inhibitors. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking COMT inhibitors. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
chlorproMAZINE: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as phenothiazines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as phenothiazines, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Chlorzoxazone: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including skeletal muscle relaxants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Cholestyramine: (Moderate) Entacapone should be given cautiously with drugs known to interfere with biliary excretion, glucuronidation, or intestinal beta-glucuronidation such as cholestyramine. Decreased biliary excretion of entacapone may occur if these agents are given concurrently.
Clemastine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Clevidipine: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
cloBAZam: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when clobazam is combined with entacapone, a COMT inhibitor. Clobazam, a benzodiazepine, may cause drowsiness or other CNS effects. COMT inhibitors may cause drowsiness and have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
clomiPRAMINE: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including tricyclic antidepressants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them. (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects, such as somnolence, hypertension, and dyskinesias, during concomitant use of levodopa and tricyclic antidepressants. Sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating, may also occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
clonazePAM: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
cloNIDine: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including clonidine, due to the possibility of additive sedation and hypotension. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a centrally-acting adrenergic agent, is necessary. An antihypertensive dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Clorazepate: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as atypical antipsychotics. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as atypical antipsychotics, interfere with dopamine's actions. (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or COMT inhibitor during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with COMT inhibitors and other Parkinson's treatments than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking COMT inhibitors. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking COMT inhibitors. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking COMT inhibitors. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking COMT inhibitors. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking COMT inhibitors. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as phenothiazines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as phenothiazines, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking COMT inhibitors. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as phenothiazines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as phenothiazines, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Cyclobenzaprine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including skeletal muscle relaxants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Cyproheptadine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Dantrolene: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including skeletal muscle relaxants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Desipramine: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including tricyclic antidepressants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them. (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects, such as somnolence, hypertension, and dyskinesias, during concomitant use of levodopa and tricyclic antidepressants. Sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating, may also occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) Separate the administration of oral levodopa and oral products that contain iron, such as multivitamins and other dietary supplements, by at least 2 hours. Taking levodopa at the same time as an iron product interferes with levodopa oral absorption which may reduce its efficacy. Simultaneous coadministration with ferrous sulfate has been observed to reduce levodopa peak and overall exposure by 47% to 55% and 30% to 51%, respectively.
Deutetrabenazine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of deutetrabenazine and drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as entacapone, may have additive effects and worsen drowsiness or sedation. Advise patients about worsened somnolence and not to drive or perform other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how deutetrabenazine affects them.
Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Dexchlorpheniramine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including dexmedetomidine, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Monitor patients closely for additive effects that may prolong recovery from dexmedetomidine administration.
Dexmethylphenidate: (Minor) Due to their pharmacologic actions, it is thought that increased dopaminergic effects may occur during coadministration of methylphenidate derivatives, inhibitors of dopamine reuptake, and COMT inhibitors. Be alert for any dopamine-related side effects such as nausea, reduced appetite, tremor, or changes in moods or behaviors.
Dextromethorphan; buPROPion: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of CNS toxicity, such as restlessness, agitation, tremor, ataxia, gait disturbance, vertigo, and dizziness, if concomitant use of levodopa and bupropion is necessary. Both medications have dopamine agonist effects and use may increase the risk for dopamine-related adverse reactions.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
diazePAM: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Diazoxide: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a vasodilator, is necessary. A vasodilator dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Difelikefalin: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
dilTIAZem: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
dimenhyDRINATE: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including systemic atropine, due to the possibility of additive sedation. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
DOBUTamine: (Moderate) Drugs known to be metabolized by catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT), such as dobutamine, should be administered cautiously to patients receiving COMT inhibitors. Concomitant use may result in increased heart rates, possibly arrhythmias, and excessive changes in blood pressure.
DOPamine: (Moderate) Drugs known to be metabolized by catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT), such as dopamine, should be administered cautiously to patients receiving COMT inhibitors. Concomitant use may result in increased heart rates, possibly arrhythmias, and excessive changes in blood pressure.
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Doxazosin: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as doxazosin, is necessary. A doxazosin dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Doxepin: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including tricyclic antidepressants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them. (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects, such as somnolence, hypertension, and dyskinesias, during concomitant use of levodopa and tricyclic antidepressants. Sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating, may also occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Doxylamine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Doxylamine; Pyridoxine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
droNABinol: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including dronabinol, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
droPERidol: (Major) Use droperidol with caution in patients taking COMT inhibitors due to the possibility of additive sedation. Droperidol produces marked tranquilization and sedation; reduced dosages may be needed in debilitated patients, particularly when combined with other CNS depressants. (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in levodopa efficacy during concomitant use of levodopa and dopamine D2 receptor antagonists, such as droperidol. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists interfere with dopamine's actions.
Droxidopa: (Moderate) Monitor for a reduction in droxidopa efficacy during concomitant use of carbidopa; consider a droxidopa dosage adjustment as needed based on clinical response. Concomitant use may inhibit the conversion of droxidopa to its active metabolite, norepinephrine, outside of the central nervous system. Concomitant use has been observed to increase overall exposure to the pharmacologically inactive compounds droxidopa and methoxylated dihydroxyphenylserine (3-OM-DOPS) by 2- and 1.5-fold, respectively.
Enalapril, Enalaprilat: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
ePHEDrine: (Major) Drugs known to be metabolized by catechol-O-methyltransferase, such as ephedrine or ephedra, ma huang should be administered cautiously in patients receiving entacapone. Concomitant use may result in increased heart rates, possibly arrhythmias, and excessive changes in blood pressure.
ePHEDrine; guaiFENesin: (Major) Drugs known to be metabolized by catechol-O-methyltransferase, such as ephedrine or ephedra, ma huang should be administered cautiously in patients receiving entacapone. Concomitant use may result in increased heart rates, possibly arrhythmias, and excessive changes in blood pressure.
EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Use COMT inhibitors and epinephrine, regardless of route, together with caution due to potential for increased heart rate, arrhythmias, and excessive changes in blood pressure. Epinephrine is metabolized by catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT), therefore COMT inhibitors potentiate the pressor effects of epinephrine.
Eplerenone: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as eplerenone, is necessary. An eplerenone dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Epoprostenol: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as epoprostenol, is necessary. An epoprostenol dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Erythromycin: (Moderate) Entacapone should be given cautiously with drugs known to interfere with biliary excretion, glucuronidation or intestinal beta-glucuronidation such as erythromycin. Decreased biliary excretion of entacapone may occur if these agents are given concurrently.
Esketamine: (Major) Because of the possibility of additive sedative effects, caution is advisable during concurrent use of dopaminergic agents, such as entacapone, and CNS depressants, such as esketamine. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients who have received a dose of esketamine should be instructed not to drive or engage in other activities requiring complete mental alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Esmolol: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Estazolam: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Eszopiclone: (Major) A reduction in the dose of eszopiclone or concomitantly administered drugs with sedative properties (e.g., COMT inhibitors) should be considered to minimize additive sedative effects. In addition, the risk of next-day psychomotor impairment from eszopiclone may be increased during coadministration, which may decrease the ability to perform tasks requiring full mental alertness such as driving. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Ethacrynic Acid: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a loop diuretic, is necessary. A loop diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Ethanol: (Major) Advise patients to avoid alcohol consumption while taking CNS depressants. Alcohol consumption may result in additive CNS depression. (Major) Advise patients who are receiving carbidopa; levodopa biphasic release capsules to avoid taking their medication with alcohol. Alcohol interferes with this product's unique release mechanism resulting in a more rapid release of carbidopa; levodopa which may acutely increase the risk for adverse effects and decrease carbidopa; levodopa's duration of action. Dose dumping was observed in the presence of 40% ethanol (80 proof) in a dissolution study but was not observed with lower ethanol concentrations. Additionally, alcohol consumption with levodopa may increase the risk for somnolence and sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating.
Etomidate: (Major) Additive CNS depression and hypotension may occur when general anesthetics and COMT inhibitors are used together. Monitor patients closely for additive effects that may prolong recovery.
Felodipine: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Fenfluramine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of fenfluramine and entacapone. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression. Dopaminergic agents, such as entacapone, have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Fenoldopam: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a vasodilator, is necessary. A vasodilator dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
fentaNYL: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Ferric Maltol: (Moderate) Separate the administration of oral levodopa and oral products that contain iron, such as multivitamins and other dietary supplements, by at least 2 hours. Taking levodopa at the same time as an iron product interferes with levodopa oral absorption which may reduce its efficacy. Simultaneous coadministration with ferrous sulfate has been observed to reduce levodopa peak and overall exposure by 47% to 55% and 30% to 51%, respectively.
Flibanserin: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including flibanserin, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
fluPHENAZine: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as phenothiazines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as phenothiazines, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Flurazepam: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Food: (Major) Advise patients to avoid cannabis use while taking CNS depressants due to the risk for additive CNS depression and potential for other cognitive adverse reactions. (Major) Many levodopa products may be taken with or without food. Follow the directions of the product prescribed. However, foods with a high protein content may delay or impair the oral absorption of levodopa and may reduce efficacy. The Parkinson's Foundation states that most patients have no problem taking levodopa-containing products with meals, but some experience less benefit if they take such products with a stomach full of protein (including meats, cheeses and other dairy products). When this occurs, it is recommended to only take carbidopa/levodopa along with non-protein foods. For patients with more advanced PD, it is best to take levodopa-containing medications 30 to 60 minutes before eating a meal to limit food interference. If nausea occurs, the products may be taken with a small non-protein snack, such as fruit or a cracker, to help. (Major) Patients with Parkinson's disease should avoid foods high in fat around the time of taking carbidopa; levodopa. These foods may delay gastric emptying, which can decrease and delay the absorption of levodopa. (Major) Patients with Parkinson's disease should avoid foods high in fiber around the time of taking carbidopa; levodopa. These foods may delay gastric emptying, which can decrease and delay the absorption of levodopa.
Fosinopril: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Fosphenytoin: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in levodopa efficacy during concomitant use of levodopa and phenytoin. Concomitant use may interfere with the actions of levodopa.
Furosemide: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a loop diuretic, is necessary. A loop diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Gabapentin: (Major) Initiate gabapentin at the lowest recommended dose and monitor patients for symptoms of sedation and somnolence during coadministration of gabapentin and entacapone. Concomitant use of gabapentin with entacapone may cause additive CNS depression. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. Dopaminergic agents, such as entacapone, have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as gabapentin. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
General anesthetics: (Major) Additive CNS depression and hypotension may occur when general anesthetics and COMT inhibitors are used together. Monitor patients closely for additive effects that may prolong recovery.
Glycopyrrolate: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in levodopa efficacy during concomitant use of levodopa and oral glycopyrrolate; a levodopa dosage adjustment may be required based on response. Concomitant use may reduce levodopa exposure.
Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in levodopa efficacy during concomitant use of levodopa and oral glycopyrrolate; a levodopa dosage adjustment may be required based on response. Concomitant use may reduce levodopa exposure.
guanFACINE: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including guanfacine, due to the possibility of additive sedation or hypotension. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a centrally-acting adrenergic agent, is necessary. An antihypertensive dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Haloperidol: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, haloperidol and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic as an alternative to haloperidol. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors. (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in levodopa efficacy during concomitant use of levodopa and dopamine D2 receptor antagonists, such as haloperidol. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists interfere with dopamine's actions.
Heterocyclic antidepressants: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as heterocyclic antidepressants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking COMT inhibitors. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
hydrALAZINE: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a vasodilator, is necessary. A vasodilator dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
hydrALAZINE; Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a vasodilator, is necessary. A vasodilator dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking COMT inhibitors. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking COMT inhibitors. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
HYDROmorphone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
hydrOXYzine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of levodopa and nonselective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as methylene blue, is contraindicated due to the risk for hypertensive crisis. Allow a minimum of 2 weeks to elapse following discontinuation of methylene blue before initiating levodopa.
Iloperidone: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as atypical antipsychotics. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as atypical antipsychotics, interfere with dopamine's actions. (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or COMT inhibitor during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with COMT inhibitors and other Parkinson's treatments than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Iloprost: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as iloprost, is necessary. An iloprost dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Imipramine: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including tricyclic antidepressants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them. (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects, such as somnolence, hypertension, and dyskinesias, during concomitant use of levodopa and tricyclic antidepressants. Sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating, may also occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Irbesartan: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Iron Salts: (Moderate) Separate the administration of oral levodopa and oral products that contain iron, such as multivitamins and other dietary supplements, by at least 2 hours. Taking levodopa at the same time as an iron product interferes with levodopa oral absorption which may reduce its efficacy. Simultaneous coadministration with ferrous sulfate has been observed to reduce levodopa peak and overall exposure by 47% to 55% and 30% to 51%, respectively.
Iron: (Moderate) Separate the administration of oral levodopa and oral products that contain iron, such as multivitamins and other dietary supplements, by at least 2 hours. Taking levodopa at the same time as an iron product interferes with levodopa oral absorption which may reduce its efficacy. Simultaneous coadministration with ferrous sulfate has been observed to reduce levodopa peak and overall exposure by 47% to 55% and 30% to 51%, respectively.
Isocarboxazid: (Contraindicated) At least 14 days should elapse between the discontinuation of isocarboxazid, which is a non-selective MAO inhibitor, and the use of a COMT inhibitor to avoid potential interactions. Monoamine oxidase (MAO) and catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) are the 2 major enzymes involved in the metabolism of catecholamines. The combination of a COMT inhibitor and isocarboxazid may result in inhibition of the majority of pathways responsible for normal catecholamine metabolism, which may lead to hypertensive crisis or other adverse effects. (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of levodopa and nonselective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) is contraindicated due to the risk for hypertensive crisis. Allow a minimum of 2 weeks to elapse following discontinuation of MAOI therapy before initiating levodopa.
Isoflurane: (Major) Additive CNS depression and hypotension may occur when general anesthetics and COMT inhibitors are used together. Monitor patients closely for additive effects that may prolong recovery.
Isoniazid, INH: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in levodopa efficacy during concomitant use of levodopa and isoniazid. Concomitant use may interfere with the actions of levodopa.
Isoproterenol: (Moderate) Drugs known to be metabolized by catechol-O-methyltransferase, such as isoproterenol, should be administered cautiously in patients receiving COMT inhibitors. Concomitant use may result in increased heart rates, possibly arrhythmias, and excessive changes in blood pressure.
Isradipine: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Ketamine: (Major) Additive CNS depression and hypotension may occur when general anesthetics and COMT inhibitors are used together. Monitor patients closely for additive effects that may prolong recovery.
Labetalol: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Landiolol: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Lasmiditan: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lasmiditan and entacapone. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression. Dopaminergic agents, such as entacapone, have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Lemborexant: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lemborexant and entacapone. Dosage adjustments of lemborexant and entacapone may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if lemborexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Levamlodipine: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Levobunolol: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Levocetirizine: (Moderate) Caution is recommended during concurrent use of cetirizine or levocetirizine with COMT inhibitors because of the possibility for additive sedative effects. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) Separate the administration of oral levodopa and oral products that contain iron, such as multivitamins and other dietary supplements, by at least 2 hours. Taking levodopa at the same time as an iron product interferes with levodopa oral absorption which may reduce its efficacy. Simultaneous coadministration with ferrous sulfate has been observed to reduce levodopa peak and overall exposure by 47% to 55% and 30% to 51%, respectively.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Moderate) Separate the administration of oral levodopa and oral products that contain iron, such as multivitamins and other dietary supplements, by at least 2 hours. Taking levodopa at the same time as an iron product interferes with levodopa oral absorption which may reduce its efficacy. Simultaneous coadministration with ferrous sulfate has been observed to reduce levodopa peak and overall exposure by 47% to 55% and 30% to 51%, respectively.
Levorphanol: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Use COMT inhibitors and epinephrine, regardless of route, together with caution due to potential for increased heart rate, arrhythmias, and excessive changes in blood pressure. Epinephrine is metabolized by catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT), therefore COMT inhibitors potentiate the pressor effects of epinephrine.
Linezolid: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of levodopa and nonselective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as linezolid, is contraindicated due to the risk for hypertensive crisis. Allow a minimum of 2 weeks to elapse following discontinuation of linezolid before initiating levodopa. (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of COMT inhibitors in combination with linezoid, which has non-selective monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor activity. Typically, at least 14 days should elapse between the discontinuation of a non-selective MAOI and the use of a COMT inhibitor to avoid potential interactions. Consider an alternative to linezolid if possible. Monoamine oxidase and catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) are the two major enzymes involved in the metabolism of catecholamines. It is theoretically possible that the coadministration of a COMT inhibitor with linezolid would result in inhibition of normal catecholamine metabolism and possible toxicity.
Lisinopril: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Lofexidine: (Major) Monitor for excessive hypotension and sedation during coadministration of lofexidine and entacapone. Lofexidine can potentiate the effects of CNS depressants.
Loop diuretics: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a loop diuretic, is necessary. A loop diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
LORazepam: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Losartan: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Loxapine: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, loxapine and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider if an atypical antipsychotic is a potential alternative to loxapine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors. (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in levodopa efficacy during concomitant use of levodopa and dopamine D2 receptor antagonists, such as loxapine. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists interfere with dopamine's actions.
Lumateperone: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as atypical antipsychotics. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as atypical antipsychotics, interfere with dopamine's actions. (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or COMT inhibitor during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with COMT inhibitors and other Parkinson's treatments than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Lurasidone: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as atypical antipsychotics. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as atypical antipsychotics, interfere with dopamine's actions. (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or COMT inhibitor during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with COMT inhibitors and other Parkinson's treatments than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Macimorelin: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of macimorelin and levodopa. Consider allowing at least 12 hours, or 5 medication half-lives, to elapse after levodopa administration before using macimorelin. Levodopa may transiently elevate growth hormone concentrations and interfere with macimorelin test results.
Mecamylamine: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as mecamylamine, is necessary. A mecamylamine dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Meclizine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Melatonin: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including melatonin, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Meperidine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Meprobamate: (Moderate) Additive CNS depressant effects are possible during coadministration of COMT inhibitors and meprobamate. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Metaxalone: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including skeletal muscle relaxants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Methadone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Methenamine; Sodium Acid Phosphate; Methylene Blue; Hyoscyamine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of levodopa and nonselective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as methylene blue, is contraindicated due to the risk for hypertensive crisis. Allow a minimum of 2 weeks to elapse following discontinuation of methylene blue before initiating levodopa.
Methohexital: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as barbiturates, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should avoid driving or other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drug combination are known. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as barbiturates. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Methyldopa: (Moderate) Drugs known to be metabolized by catechol-O-methyltransferase, such as methyldopa, should be administered cautiously in patients receiving COMT inhibitors. Concomitant use may result in increased heart rates, possibly arrhythmias, and excessive changes in blood pressure. Additive sedation and hypotension can occur. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a centrally-acting adrenergic agent, is necessary. An antihypertensive dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Methylene Blue: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of levodopa and nonselective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as methylene blue, is contraindicated due to the risk for hypertensive crisis. Allow a minimum of 2 weeks to elapse following discontinuation of methylene blue before initiating levodopa.
Methylphenidate Derivatives: (Minor) Due to their pharmacologic actions, it is thought that increased dopaminergic effects may occur during coadministration of methylphenidate derivatives, inhibitors of dopamine reuptake, and COMT inhibitors. Be alert for any dopamine-related side effects such as nausea, reduced appetite, tremor, or changes in moods or behaviors.
Methylphenidate: (Minor) Due to their pharmacologic actions, it is thought that increased dopaminergic effects may occur during coadministration of methylphenidate derivatives, inhibitors of dopamine reuptake, and COMT inhibitors. Be alert for any dopamine-related side effects such as nausea, reduced appetite, tremor, or changes in moods or behaviors.
Metoclopramide: (Moderate) Coadministration of COMT inhibitors and metoclopramide should be avoided if possible. Metoclopramide may interfere with the effectiveness of COMT inhibitors. Metoclopramide has dopamine antagonist properties while COMT inhibitors increase the availability of catecholamine concentrations (e.g., dopamine) in the central nervous system. (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in levodopa efficacy during concomitant use of levodopa and dopamine D2 receptor antagonists, such as metoclopramide. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists interfere with dopamine's actions.
metOLazone: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Metoprolol: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Midazolam: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Minoxidil: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a vasodilator, is necessary. A vasodilator dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Mirtazapine: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as mirtazapine, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Moexipril: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Molindone: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, molindone and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors. (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in levodopa efficacy during concomitant use of levodopa and dopamine D2 receptor antagonists, such as molindone. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists interfere with dopamine's actions.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of levodopa and nonselective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) is contraindicated due to the risk for hypertensive crisis. Allow a minimum of 2 weeks to elapse following discontinuation of MAOI therapy before initiating levodopa.
Morphine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Nadolol: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Nalbuphine: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists-antagonists with other central nervous system (CNS) depressants, such as COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the effects of the opiate agonists-antagonist and may lead to additive CNS or respiratory depression. Prior to concurrent use of a mixed opiate agonist-antagonist in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. If these agents are used together, reduced dosages may be necessary. Carefully monitor the patient for hypotension and CNS depression.
Nebivolol: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Nefazodone: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as nefazodone, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Neostigmine; Glycopyrrolate: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in levodopa efficacy during concomitant use of levodopa and oral glycopyrrolate; a levodopa dosage adjustment may be required based on response. Concomitant use may reduce levodopa exposure.
NiCARdipine: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
NIFEdipine: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
niMODipine: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Nisoldipine: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Nitroprusside: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a vasodilator, is necessary. A vasodilator dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Norepinephrine: (Moderate) Drugs known to be metabolized by catechol-O-methyltransferase, such as norepinephrine, should be administered cautiously to patients receiving COMT inhibitors. Concomitant use may result in increased heart rates, possibly arrhythmias, and excessive changes in blood pressure.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) Separate the administration of oral levodopa and oral products that contain iron, such as multivitamins and other dietary supplements, by at least 2 hours. Taking levodopa at the same time as an iron product interferes with levodopa oral absorption which may reduce its efficacy. Simultaneous coadministration with ferrous sulfate has been observed to reduce levodopa peak and overall exposure by 47% to 55% and 30% to 51%, respectively.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) Separate the administration of oral levodopa and oral products that contain iron, such as multivitamins and other dietary supplements, by at least 2 hours. Taking levodopa at the same time as an iron product interferes with levodopa oral absorption which may reduce its efficacy. Simultaneous coadministration with ferrous sulfate has been observed to reduce levodopa peak and overall exposure by 47% to 55% and 30% to 51%, respectively.
Nortriptyline: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including tricyclic antidepressants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them. (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects, such as somnolence, hypertension, and dyskinesias, during concomitant use of levodopa and tricyclic antidepressants. Sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating, may also occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as atypical antipsychotics. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as atypical antipsychotics, interfere with dopamine's actions. (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or COMT inhibitor during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with COMT inhibitors and other Parkinson's treatments than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as atypical antipsychotics. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as atypical antipsychotics, interfere with dopamine's actions. (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or COMT inhibitor during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with COMT inhibitors and other Parkinson's treatments than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as atypical antipsychotics. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as atypical antipsychotics, interfere with dopamine's actions. (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or COMT inhibitor during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with COMT inhibitors and other Parkinson's treatments than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Oliceridine: (Major) Concomitant use of oliceridine with entacapone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of oliceridine with entacapone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Olmesartan: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Opiate Agonists: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Opiate Agonists-Antagonists: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists-antagonists with other central nervous system (CNS) depressants, such as COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the effects of the opiate agonists-antagonist and may lead to additive CNS or respiratory depression. Prior to concurrent use of a mixed opiate agonist-antagonist in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. If these agents are used together, reduced dosages may be necessary. Carefully monitor the patient for hypotension and CNS depression.
Orphenadrine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including skeletal muscle relaxants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Oxazepam: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
oxyCODONE: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
oxyMORphone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Paliperidone: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as atypical antipsychotics. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as atypical antipsychotics, interfere with dopamine's actions. (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or COMT inhibitor during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with COMT inhibitors and other Parkinson's treatments than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Papaverine: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in levodopa efficacy during concomitant use of levodopa and papaverine. Concomitant use may interfere with the actions of levodopa.
Pentazocine; Naloxone: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists-antagonists with other central nervous system (CNS) depressants, such as COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the effects of the opiate agonists-antagonist and may lead to additive CNS or respiratory depression. Prior to concurrent use of a mixed opiate agonist-antagonist in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. If these agents are used together, reduced dosages may be necessary. Carefully monitor the patient for hypotension and CNS depression.
PENTobarbital: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as barbiturates, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should avoid driving or other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drug combination are known. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as barbiturates. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Perampanel: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as entacapone.
Perindopril: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Perphenazine: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as phenothiazines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as phenothiazines, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including tricyclic antidepressants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them. (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as phenothiazines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as phenothiazines, interfere with dopamine's actions. (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects, such as somnolence, hypertension, and dyskinesias, during concomitant use of levodopa and tricyclic antidepressants. Sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating, may also occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Phenelzine: (Contraindicated) At least 14 days should elapse between the discontinuation of phenelzine, which is a non-selective MAO inhibitor, and the use of a COMT inhibitor to avoid potential interactions. Monoamine oxidase (MAO) and catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) are the 2 major enzymes involved in the metabolism of catecholamines. The combination of a COMT inhibitor and phenelzine may result in inhibition of the majority of pathways responsible for normal catecholamine metabolism, which may lead to hypertensive crisis or other adverse effects. (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of levodopa and nonselective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) is contraindicated due to the risk for hypertensive crisis. Allow a minimum of 2 weeks to elapse following discontinuation of MAOI therapy before initiating levodopa.
PHENobarbital: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as barbiturates, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should avoid driving or other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drug combination are known. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as barbiturates. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as barbiturates, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should avoid driving or other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drug combination are known. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as barbiturates. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including scopolamine, due to the possibility of additive sedation. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them. (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including systemic atropine, due to the possibility of additive sedation. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Phenothiazines: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as phenothiazines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as phenothiazines, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Phenoxybenzamine: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as phenoxybenzamine, is necessary. A phenoxybenzamine dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Phenytoin: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in levodopa efficacy during concomitant use of levodopa and phenytoin. Concomitant use may interfere with the actions of levodopa.
Pimozide: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, pimozide and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic instead of pimozide if appropriate. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors. (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in levodopa efficacy during concomitant use of levodopa and dopamine D2 receptor antagonists, such as pimozide. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists interfere with dopamine's actions.
Pindolol: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Polysaccharide-Iron Complex: (Moderate) Separate the administration of oral levodopa and oral products that contain iron, such as multivitamins and other dietary supplements, by at least 2 hours. Taking levodopa at the same time as an iron product interferes with levodopa oral absorption which may reduce its efficacy. Simultaneous coadministration with ferrous sulfate has been observed to reduce levodopa peak and overall exposure by 47% to 55% and 30% to 51%, respectively.
Potassium-sparing diuretics: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a potassium-sparing diuretic, is necessary. A potassium-sparing diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Pramipexole: (Moderate) Coadministration of COMT inhibitors and pramipexole may cause additive sedation. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Prazosin: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as prazosin, is necessary. A prazosin dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Pregabalin: (Major) Initiate pregabalin at the lowest recommended dose and monitor patients for symptoms of sedation and somnolence during coadministration of pregabalin and COMT inhibitors. Concomitant use of pregabalin with COMT inhibitors may cause additive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as pregabalin. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Use COMT inhibitors and epinephrine, regardless of route, together with caution due to potential for increased heart rate, arrhythmias, and excessive changes in blood pressure. Epinephrine is metabolized by catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT), therefore COMT inhibitors potentiate the pressor effects of epinephrine.
Primidone: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as barbiturates, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should avoid driving or other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drug combination are known. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as barbiturates. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Probenecid: (Moderate) Entacapone should be given cautiously with drugs known to interfere with biliary excretion, glucuronidation or intestinal beta-glucuronidation such as probenecid. Decreased biliary excretion of entacapone may occur if these agents are given concurrently.
Probenecid; Colchicine: (Moderate) Entacapone should be given cautiously with drugs known to interfere with biliary excretion, glucuronidation or intestinal beta-glucuronidation such as probenecid. Decreased biliary excretion of entacapone may occur if these agents are given concurrently.
Procarbazine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of levodopa and nonselective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as procarbazine, is contraindicated due to the risk for hypertensive crisis. Allow a minimum of 2 weeks to elapse following discontinuation of procarbazine before initiating levodopa. (Major) Procarbazine has some non-selective MAO inhibiting activity. Typically, at least 14 days should elapse between the discontinuation of the non-selective MAOI and the use of a COMT inhibitor to avoid potential interactions. Patients should ordinarily not receive COMT-inhibitors in combination with agents with non-selective MAO inhibiting activity. MAO and COMT are the 2 major enzymes involved in the metabolism of catecholamines. It is theoretically possible that the combination of COMT-inhibitors and a non-selective MAOI would result in inhibition of the majority of pathways responsible for normal catecholamine metabolism.
Prochlorperazine: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as phenothiazines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as phenothiazines, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Promethazine: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as phenothiazines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as phenothiazines, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as phenothiazines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as phenothiazines, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as phenothiazines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as phenothiazines, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Propofol: (Major) Additive CNS depression and hypotension may occur when general anesthetics and COMT inhibitors are used together. Monitor patients closely for additive effects that may prolong recovery.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Protriptyline: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including tricyclic antidepressants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them. (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects, such as somnolence, hypertension, and dyskinesias, during concomitant use of levodopa and tricyclic antidepressants. Sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating, may also occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Pyridoxine, Vitamin B6: (Minor) If levodopa is administered without carbidopa, monitor for reduced levodopa efficacy during concomitant use of pyridoxine (vitamin B6). Pyridoxine in doses of 10 mg to 25 mg may promote extracerebral degradation of levodopa which may reduce its efficacy. Carbidopa inhibits this effect of pyridoxine.
Quazepam: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
QUEtiapine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as atypical antipsychotics. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as atypical antipsychotics, interfere with dopamine's actions. (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or COMT inhibitor during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with COMT inhibitors and other Parkinson's treatments than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Quinapril: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Racepinephrine: (Major) Drugs known to be metabolized by catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT), such as racepinephrine inhalations, should be administered cautiously in patients receiving COMT inhibitors like entacapone, tolcapone, or combinations containing these drugs such as carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone. If a patient is taking a COMT-inhibitor, then they should seek health care professional advice prior to the use of racepinephrine. Concomitant use may result in increased heart rate, possibly arrhythmias, and excessive changes in blood pressure. A single 400 mg dose of entacapone given with intravenous epinephrine has produced changes in heart rate and blood pressure. Ventricular tachycardia was noted in one healthy volunteer during an interaction study with epinephrine infusion and oral entacapone administration.
Ramelteon: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including ramelteon, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Ramipril: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) Monitor for orthostatic hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and selective monoamine oxidase B (MAO-B) inhibitors, such as rasagiline, is necessary.
Remifentanil: (Major) COMT inhibitors may cause additive sedation or hypotension with remifentanil. Monitor patients receiving remifentanil with other CNS depressants for hypotension and prolonged respiratory depression and sedation. In such cases of combined treatment, a dose reduction of one or both agents may be necessary. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Remimazolam: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
rifAMPin: (Moderate) Entacapone should be given cautiously with drugs known to interfere with biliary excretion, glucuronidation or intestinal beta-glucuronidation such as rifampin. Decreased biliary excretion of entacapone may occur if these agents are given concurrently.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as atypical antipsychotics. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as atypical antipsychotics, interfere with dopamine's actions. (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or COMT inhibitor during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with COMT inhibitors and other Parkinson's treatments than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Rotigotine: (Minor) Monitor for new or worsening dyskinesias during concomitant use of rotigotine and levodopa. Rotigotine use may potentiate the dopaminergic effects of levodopa in some patients, worsening the incidence and severity of dyskinesias. The incidence of adverse effects increases with increasing dose.
Sacubitril; Valsartan: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Sapropterin: (Moderate) Monitor patients for neurologic adverse effects, such as seizures, over-stimulation, and irritability, during concomitant use of sapropterin and levodopa. Concomitant use has been associated with changes in neurologic status, especially in patients with underlying neurological disorders.
Scopolamine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including scopolamine, due to the possibility of additive sedation. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Secobarbital: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as barbiturates, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should avoid driving or other hazardous tasks until the effects of the drug combination are known. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as barbiturates. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Sedating H1-blockers: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Selegiline: (Moderate) Monitor for orthostatic hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and selective monoamine oxidase B (MAO-B) inhibitors, such as selegiline, is necessary.
Sepiapterin: (Moderate) Monitor for neurologic adverse effects, such as seizures, over-stimulation, and irritability, during concomitant use of sepiapterin and levodopa. Sepiapterin may increase the availability of tyrosine, a levodopa precursor, which may increase the risk for levodopa-related adverse effects.
Serdexmethylphenidate; Dexmethylphenidate: (Minor) Due to their pharmacologic actions, it is thought that increased dopaminergic effects may occur during coadministration of methylphenidate derivatives, inhibitors of dopamine reuptake, and COMT inhibitors. Be alert for any dopamine-related side effects such as nausea, reduced appetite, tremor, or changes in moods or behaviors.
Sevoflurane: (Major) Additive CNS depression and hypotension may occur when general anesthetics and COMT inhibitors are used together. Monitor patients closely for additive effects that may prolong recovery.
Skeletal Muscle Relaxants: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including skeletal muscle relaxants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Sodium Ferric Gluconate Complex; Ferric Pyrophosphate Citrate: (Moderate) Separate the administration of oral levodopa and oral products that contain iron, such as multivitamins and other dietary supplements, by at least 2 hours. Taking levodopa at the same time as an iron product interferes with levodopa oral absorption which may reduce its efficacy. Simultaneous coadministration with ferrous sulfate has been observed to reduce levodopa peak and overall exposure by 47% to 55% and 30% to 51%, respectively.
Sodium Oxybate: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sodium oxybate, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Solriamfetol: (Moderate) Monitor for dopamine-mediated effects including nausea, vomiting, dizziness, tremor, and changes in moods or behaviors if solriamfetol, a central dopamine and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor, is administered with other dopaminergic drugs, such as entacapone. Caution is recommended since this combination has not been evaluated. (Moderate) Monitor for dopamine-mediated effects including nausea, vomiting, dizziness, tremor, and changes in moods or behaviors if solriamfetol, a central dopamine and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor, is administered with other dopaminergic drugs, such as levodopa.
Sotalol: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Spironolactone: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a potassium-sparing diuretic, is necessary. A potassium-sparing diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a potassium-sparing diuretic, is necessary. A potassium-sparing diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Stiripentol: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of stiripentol and entacapone. CNS depressants can potentiate the effects of stiripentol.
SUFentanil: (Major) COMT inhibitors may cause additive sedation or hypotension with sufentanil. Monitor patients receiving sufentanil with other CNS depressants for hypotension and prolonged respiratory depression and sedation. In such cases of combined treatment, a dose reduction of one or both agents may be necessary. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Sulopenem Etzadroxil; Probenecid: (Moderate) Entacapone should be given cautiously with drugs known to interfere with biliary excretion, glucuronidation or intestinal beta-glucuronidation such as probenecid. Decreased biliary excretion of entacapone may occur if these agents are given concurrently.
Suvorexant: (Moderate) CNS depressant drugs may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with suvorexant. A reduction in dose of the CNS depressant may be needed in some cases.
Tapentadol: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Tasimelteon: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including tasimelteon, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Telmisartan: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Temazepam: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Tetrabenazine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tetrabenazine and drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as entacapone, may have additive effects and worsen drowsiness or sedation. Advise patients about worsened somnolence and not to drive or perform other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how tetrabenazine affects them. (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in levodopa efficacy during concomitant use of levodopa and dopamine D2 receptor antagonists, such as tetrabenazine. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists interfere with dopamine's actions. While concomitant use is generally not recommended for this reason, combination therapy may be beneficial in the management of some levodopa-related dyskinesias.
Thalidomide: (Major) The use of thalidomide and COMT inhibitors may cause an additive sedative effect and should be avoided if possible. If concurrent treatment is needed, prescribers should monitor patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Thiazide diuretics: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Thioridazine: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as phenothiazines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as phenothiazines, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Thiothixene: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, thiothixene and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic as an alternative to thiothixene. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors. (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in levodopa efficacy during concomitant use of levodopa and dopamine D2 receptor antagonists, such as thiothixene. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists interfere with dopamine's actions.
Timolol: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
tiZANidine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as tizanidine, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Torsemide: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a loop diuretic, is necessary. A loop diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Tradipitant: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
traMADol: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with COMT inhibitors may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with COMT inhibitors to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Trandolapril: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Tranylcypromine: (Contraindicated) At least 14 days should elapse between the discontinuation of tranylcypromine, which is a non-selective MAO inhibitor, and the use of a COMT inhibitor to avoid potential interactions. Monoamine oxidase (MAO) and catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) are the 2 major enzymes involved in the metabolism of catecholamines. The combination of a COMT inhibitor and tranylcypromine may result in inhibition of the majority of pathways responsible for normal catecholamine metabolism, which may lead to hypertensive crisis or other adverse effects. (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of levodopa and nonselective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) is contraindicated due to the risk for hypertensive crisis. Allow a minimum of 2 weeks to elapse following discontinuation of MAOI therapy before initiating levodopa.
traZODone: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, such as trazodone, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Treprostinil: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as treprostinil, is necessary. A treprostinil dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Triamterene: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a potassium-sparing diuretic, is necessary. A potassium-sparing diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a potassium-sparing diuretic, is necessary. A potassium-sparing diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Triazolam: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including tricyclic antidepressants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them. (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects, such as somnolence, hypertension, and dyskinesias, during concomitant use of levodopa and tricyclic antidepressants. Sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating, may also occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Trifluoperazine: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an alternative to the phenothiazine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as phenothiazines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as phenothiazines, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Trimipramine: (Major) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including tricyclic antidepressants, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them. (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects, such as somnolence, hypertension, and dyskinesias, during concomitant use of levodopa and tricyclic antidepressants. Sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating, may also occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Triprolidine: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Valerian, Valeriana officinalis: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including valerian, due to the possibility of additive sedation.
Valproic Acid, Divalproex Sodium: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including valproic acid, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Valsartan: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Vasodilators: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a vasodilator, is necessary. A vasodilator dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Verapamil: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Vitamin B Complex Supplements: (Minor) If levodopa is administered without carbidopa, monitor for reduced levodopa efficacy during concomitant use of pyridoxine (vitamin B6). Pyridoxine in doses of 10 mg to 25 mg may promote extracerebral degradation of levodopa which may reduce its efficacy. Carbidopa inhibits this effect of pyridoxine.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Monitor INR when entacapone treatment is initiated or when the dose is increased for patients receiving warfarin. Cases of significantly increased INR in patients concomitantly using warfarin have been reported during the post-approval use of entacapone. Entacapone has affinity for CYP2C9. In an interaction study in healthy volunteers, entacapone did not significantly change the plasma levels of S-warfarin while the AUC for R-warfarin increased on average by 18% (Cl 90 11% to 26%), and the INR values increased on average by 13% (Cl 90 6% to 19%).
Zaleplon: (Major) Additive CNS depressant effects are possible during concurrent use of COMT inhibitors and zaleplon. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for additive side effects. A reduction in the dose of one or both drugs may be needed. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Ziprasidone: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as atypical antipsychotics. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as atypical antipsychotics, interfere with dopamine's actions. (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or COMT inhibitor during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with COMT inhibitors and other Parkinson's treatments than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Zolpidem: (Major) COMT inhibitors such as entacapone and tolcapone should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including zolpidem, due to the possibility of additive sedation. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for additive side effects. A reduction in the dose of one or both drugs may be needed. For Intermezzo brand of sublingual zolpidem tablets, reduce the dose to 1.75 mg/night. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Zuranolone: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  NOTE: This monograph discusses the combination product Carbidopa; Levodopa; Entacapone. Clinicians may wish to consult the individual monographs for more information about each agent.
 
Neuroleptic malignant syndrome can develop following abrupt discontinuation or dose reduction of carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone, especially in patients receiving antipsychotic agents concomitantly. The early diagnosis of this condition is important for the appropriate management of these patients. Patients should be observed closely for manifestations of this symptom complex, which includes tachycardia, muscular rigidity, elevation of body temperature (fever), mental status changes, increased sweating, tachypnea, and increases in serum creatinine levels. Altered consciousness, confused status, and elevated CPK levels have also been reported in association with rapid dose reduction or withdrawal of entacapone. No information is available concerning entacapone dosage manipulation in these cases; the role of entacapone in these reactions is unknown. Rapid re-emergence of Parkinson's disease symptoms may occur on entacapone withdrawal, and concurrent dopaminergic therapies may need an upward dosage adjustment.
 
Dyskinesia or hyperkinesis is the most serious adverse effects of carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone therapy and includes choreiform reaction and dystonic reaction. These involuntary movements occur in up to 80% of patients receiving levodopa therapy for >= 3 years and may necessitate dosage reduction. Carbidopa and entacapone allow more levodopa to reach the brain and more dopamine to be formed. Entacapone may cause and/or exacerbate preexisting dyskinesia, especially during the first 8 weeks of therapy. In a comparative trial, when either entacapone or placebo was added to current carbidopa; levodopa therapy, the rate of dyskinesia and hyperkinesis was 35% vs. 20%, respectively. The overall incidence of dyskinesia declined in response to decreased dosages of levodopa and resolved in one-third of patients. For this reason, in patients naive to entacapone it may be prudent to titrate the patient with separate dosage forms of levodopa; carbidopa and entacapone, and then switch to the fixed dosage combination (Stalevo™) once the optimal response is reached. Although decreasing the dose of levodopa may lessen levodopa dosage-induced side effects, patients may continue to experience frequent dyskinesias despite levodopa dosage reduction.
 
'Bradykinetic episodes' or 'on-off' phenomena, including akinesia, sudden return of effectiveness, and akinesia paradoxica, can occur during levodopa therapy and is likely due to both disease progression and excessive levodopa dosage. The bradykinetic episode, a sudden lack of effectiveness with concomitant akinesia, can last from 1 minute to an hour. Bradykinesia may be followed by a sudden return of effectiveness, and the cycle may occur many times a day. Increasing the frequency of carbidopa; levodopa administration can minimize this effect in some patients by providing less dose-to-dose variation in CNS levodopa levels. Akinesia paradoxica or freezing is an abrupt hypotonic reaction resulting in a short-lived interruption of motor function. Akinesia paradoxic is most problematic if it occurs when the patient is walking, and may cause a fall. The etiology of the freezing episodes is not well understood. The response to levodopa decreases over time and many patients develop 'wearing-off' fluctuations of their symptoms. Wearing-off occurs during the day and consists of a gradual onset of parkinsonian symptoms before the next levodopa dose takes effect, usually 1—3 hours after the last dose. Hypokinesia (9%) has also been reported with entacapone.
 
Gastrointestinal adverse effects are also common with both carbidopa; levodopa and entacapone therapy. Nausea/vomiting is a common, but often transient adverse reaction seen with both carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone. In pivotal trials, when either entacapone or placebo was added to current carbidopa; levodopa therapy, the rate of nausea/vomiting was 14/4% vs. 8/1%, respectively. Anorexia and weight loss may also occur. Although levodopa; carbidopa; entacapone can be administered with food to offset nausea, it should be noted that foods, especially high-protein or high-fat foods, could interfere with levodopa absorption. Peripheral dopa decarboxylase is saturated by carbidopa at approximately 70—100 mg/day; patients receiving less than this amount are more likely to experience nausea and vomiting. In comparative trials, when either entacapone or placebo was added to current carbidopa; levodopa therapy, the rate of abdominal pain was 8% vs. 4%, respectively. Dyspepsia has also been noted with both carbidopa; levodopa and entacapone therapy, but at low incidences (< 2%). Diarrhea (roughly 10% incidence) usually presents within 4—12 weeks of beginning entacapone treatment, but it may appear as early as the first week and as late as many months after the initiation of therapy. Constipation has been reported at a lower frequency (6%). Other reported GI adverse reactions include GI bleeding and GI/peptic ulcer. In a comparative trial, when either entacapone or placebo was added to current carbidopa; levodopa therapy, the rate of xerostomia was 3% vs. 0%, respectively. Xerostomia may be beneficial in some patients as sialorrhea is often a Parkinson's disease effect due to excess acetylcholine. Other gastrointestinal adverse reactions reported with entacapone included dysgeusia (taste alteration) (1%), flatulence (2%), and gastritis (1%).
 
Cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported with entacapone use. It is not known what role entacapone had in these events, but rhabdomyolysis has been associated with other drugs that increase dopaminergic activity. Severe prolonged motor activity may account for the rhabdomyolysis.
 
Diaphoresis can be seen during carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone therapy, although drenching sweats may also be a sign of Parkinson's disease. In pivotal trials, when either entacapone or placebo was added to current carbidopa; levodopa therapy, the incidence of diaphoresis was 2% vs. 1%, respectively. Lowering the levodopa dosage may be effective or, if medically appropriate, a beta-blocker may be used to decrease diaphoresis.
 
Psychiatric disturbances can occur with the administration of carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone including agitation, anxiety, confusion, dizziness, headache, euphoria, fatigue, insomnia, malaise, memory loss, nervousness, nightmares, restlessness, and daytime drowsiness. In pivotal trials, when either entacapone or placebo was added to current carbidopa; levodopa therapy, the rate of dizziness was 8% vs. 6%, respectively. Mental depression also has been reported, as well as suicidal ideation, dementia, toxic delirium, paranoid delusion, psychosis, and hypomania. Nocturnal effects may be improved by reducing or stopping the last evening dose or giving the last dose earlier in the evening. Levodopa-induced psychiatric effects tend to be progressive and frequently a compromise must be reached between psychiatric effects and control of Parkinson symptoms. Psychiatric reactions including anxiety (2%), somnolence (2%), and agitation (1%) were the most common cause of discontinuation of carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone therapy vs. carbidopa; levodopa; placebo. Hallucinations developed in approximately 4% of patients treated with entacapone or placebo. These hallucinations have been associated with levodopa, which was administered concomitantly.
 
Elevated hepatic enzymes including hyperbilirubinemia have been reported with carbidopa; levodopa. Abnormalities in blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and positive Coombs test have also been reported. Commonly, the levels of BUN, creatinine, and uric acid are lower during administration of carbidopa; levodopa combinations than with levodopa alone.
 
Hematologic adverse events have been reported with both carbidopa; levodopa and entacapone. Agranulocytosis has been reported for carbidopa; levodopa, although rates are not well defined. In a comparative trial, when either entacapone or placebo was added to current carbidopa; levodopa therapy, the rate of purpura was 2% vs. 1%, respectively. Leukopenia, non-hemolytic and hemolytic anemia, and thrombocytopenia although infrequent, can occur during carbidopa; levodopa therapy and warrant temporary discontinuance of the drug.
 
The most common cardiovascular effect of levodopa therapy is orthostatic hypotension and occurs even with therapeutic dosages. Tolerance usually develops within a few months. Due to enhancement of the dopaminergic effects of levodopa, entacapone has also been associated with orthostatic hypotension or syncope in 4.3% and 1.2%, respectively, of patients treated during clinical trials. Reports of syncope were generally more frequent in patients who had a previously documented episode of orthostatic hypotension. Cardiac arrhythmias also can occur during carbidopa; levodopa therapy but are relatively infrequent. Myocardial infarction has been reported with carbidopa; levodopa, but causality is unknown. Flushing, hypertension, and palpitations have also been reported.
 
Saliva, sweat, or urine discoloration may be noted during carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone therapy. The dark color (red, brown, or black) appears to be clinically insignificant, but may stain garments and other fabrics.
 
Other adverse effects associated with carbidopa; levodopa include bizarre breathing patterns, hot flashes, bullous lesions (including pemphigus-like reactions), hoarseness, episodic hyperventilation, increased libido, and increased nasal secretions. Urinary retention, polyuria, and urinary incontinence also have been reported.
 
Four cases of pulmonary fibrosis were reported during clinical development of entacapone; three of these patients were also treated with pergolide and one with bromocriptine. The duration of treatment with entacapone ranged from 7—17 months. Pulmonary fibrosis is not listed as a potential ADR in the manufacturer's labeling for carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone.
 
Some patients receiving medications that increase dopaminergic tone have reported intense and uncontrollable urges to gamble, increased sexual urges, or other intense urges. Causality due to dopaminergic agents has not been established; however, in some cases the urges stopped after the dose was reduced or the drug was discontinued. Practitioners should inquire periodically about new or worsening urges in patients receiving carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone. Likewise, patients should be instructed to report such changes while receiving carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone. Dose reduction or discontinuation should be considered in those who experience these effects.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    NOTE: This monograph discusses the combination product Carbidopa; Levodopa; Entacapone. Clinicians may wish to consult the individual monographs for more information about each agent.
    Headline
    dyskinesia, dystonic reaction, hyperkinesis, involuntary movements
    General Information
    Dyskinesia is the most common adverse effect of carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone therapy and includes dystonic reaction (e.g., oculogyric crisis), choreiform movements, or other involuntary movements. These involuntary movements occur in up to 80% of patients receiving levodopa therapy for >= 3 years and may necessitate dosage reduction. Carbidopa and entacapone allow more levodopa to reach the brain and more dopamine to be formed. Entacapone may cause and/or exacerbate preexisting dyskinesia, especially during the first 8 weeks of therapy. Therefore, in patients naive to entacapone it may be prudent to titrate the patient with separate dosage forms of levodopa; carbidopa and entacapone, and then switch to the fixed dosage combination (Stalevo) once the optimal response is reached. Although decreasing the dose of levodopa may lessen levodopa dosage-induced side effects, patients may continue to experience frequent dyskinesias despite levodopa dosage reduction. During placebo-controlled trials assessing entacapone as add-on therapy to carbidopa; levodopa or its equivalent, the following movement disorders occurred more frequently in the entacapone treatment group than the placebo treatment group: dyskinesia (25% vs 15%), hyperkinesis (10% vs 5%), and hypokinesia (9% vs 8%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dyskinesia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      dystonic reaction
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hyperkinesis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      involuntary movements
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
    Headline
    akinesia
    General Information
    'Bradykinetic episodes' or 'on-off' phenomena, including akinesia, sudden return of effectiveness, and akinesia paradoxica, can occur during levodopa therapy and is likely due to both disease progression and excessive levodopa dosage. The bradykinetic episode, a sudden lack of effectiveness with concomitant akinesia, can last from 1 minute to an hour. Bradykinesia may be followed by a sudden return of effectiveness, and the cycle may occur many times a day. Increasing the frequency of carbidopa; levodopa administration can minimize this effect in some patients by providing less dose-to-dose variation in CNS levodopa levels. Akinesia paradoxica or freezing is an abrupt hypotonic reaction resulting in a short-lived interruption of motor function. Akinesia paradoxic is most problematic if it occurs when the patient is walking, and may cause a fall. The etiology of the freezing episodes is not well understood. The response to levodopa decreases over time and many patients develop 'wearing-off' fluctuations of their symptoms. Wearing-off occurs during the day and consists of a gradual onset of parkinsonian symptoms before the next levodopa dose takes effect, usually 1—3 hours after the last dose. Hypokinesia (9%) has also been reported during treatment with carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      akinesia
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    colitis, diarrhea
    General Information
    Mild to severe diarrhea and colitis can occur during treatment with entacapone, and may be associated with loss of weight, dehydration, and hypokalemia. During clinical trials, diarrhea occurred in 10% of those in the levodopa/dopa decarboxylase inhibitor + entacapone group versus 4% of those in the levodopa/dopa decarboxylase inhibitor + placebo group. In the entacapone group, diarrhea was considered mild to moderate in 8.6% of patients and severe in 1.3% of patients. Treatment was discontinued in 1.2% of those with mild to moderate diarrhea and 0.5% of those with severe diarrhea, and 2 patients were hospitalized. During post-marketing use, drug-induced microscopic colitis, primarily lymphocytic colitis, has been reported. Symptoms of entacapone-induced colitis generally consist of moderate to severe, watery, non-bloody diarrhea which may be associated with dehydration, abdominal discomfort, loss of weight, and hypokalemia. Diarrhea and colitis-related symptoms usually resolve or improve significantly upon discontinuation of the drug. Diarrhea commonly presents within 4—12 weeks of beginning entacapone treatment, but it may appear as early as the first week and as late as many months after the initiation of therapy. If prolonged diarrhea is thought to be related to carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone treatment, the drug should be discontinued. If symptoms persist, diagnostic measures such as colonoscopy and biopsy should be considered.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      colitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    abdominal pain, anorexia, constipation, dysgeusia, dyspepsia, dysphagia, flatulence, gastritis, GI bleeding, hiccups, nausea, peptic ulcer, pyrosis (heartburn), teeth grinding (bruxism), vomiting, weight gain, weight loss, xerostomia
    General Information
    Gastrointestinal adverse effects are common with both carbidopa; levodopa and entacapone therapy. Nausea/vomiting is a common, but often transient adverse reaction seen with carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone. Anorexia and weight loss may also occur. Although levodopa; carbidopa; entacapone can be administered with food to offset nausea, it should be noted that foods, especially high-protein or high-fat foods, could interfere with levodopa absorption. Peripheral dopa decarboxylase is saturated by carbidopa at approximately 70—100 mg/day; patients receiving less than this amount are more likely to experience nausea and vomiting. Xerostomia may be a beneficial effects of carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone in some patients as sialorrhea is often a Parkinson's disease effect due to excess acetylcholine. During placebo-controlled trials assessing entacapone as add-on therapy to carbidopa; levodopa or its equivalent, the following adverse gastrointestinal (GI) effects occurred more frequently in the entacapone treatment group than the placebo treatment group: nausea (14% vs 8%), diarrhea (10% vs 4%), abdominal pain (8% vs 4%), constipation (6% vs 4%), vomiting (4% vs 1%), xerostomia (3% vs 0%), dyspepsia (2% vs 1%), flatulence (2% vs 0%), gastritis (1% vs 0%), dysgeusia (1% vs 0%), and GI disorders NOS (1% vs 0%). Diarrhea due to colitis has also been reported. Adverse GI effects reported during treatment with levodopa alone or carbidopa; levodopa formulations include dark saliva, GI bleeding, peptic ulcer, anorexia, vomiting, constipation, dyspepsia, xerostomia, dysgeusia, GI pain, dysphagia, sialorrhea, teeth grinding (bruxism), burning sensation of the tongue, pyrosis (heartburn), hiccups, weight gain, and weight loss.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      GI bleeding
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      peptic ulcer
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      weight loss
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspepsia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      flatulence
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      gastritis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dysphagia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hiccups
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      pyrosis (heartburn)
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      teeth grinding (bruxism)
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      dysgeusia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      weight gain
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    elevated creatine kinase, myalgia, rhabdomyolysis
    General Information
    Cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported with entacapone use in combination with levodopa. It is not known what role entacapone had in these events, but rhabdomyolysis has been associated with other drugs that increase dopaminergic activity. Severe prolonged motor activity including dyskinesia may account for rhabdomyolysis. Most of the cases were manifested by myalgia and elevated creatine kinase (CK) and myoglobin. Some of the reactions also included fever and/or alteration of consciousness. It is also possible that rhabdomyolysis may be a result of the syndrome described as withdrawal-emergent hyperpyrexia and confusion.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      myalgia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      elevated creatine kinase
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      rhabdomyolysis
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    alopecia, angioedema, bullous rash, flushing, hyperhidrosis, pruritus, rash (unspecified), urticaria
    General Information
    Hyperhidrosis can be seen during carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone therapy, although drenching sweats may be a sign of Parkinson's disease. In pivotal trials, when either entacapone or placebo was added to current carbidopa; levodopa therapy, the incidence of hyperhidrosis was 2% vs. 1%, respectively. Lowering the levodopa dosage may be effective or, if medically appropriate, a beta-blocker may be used to decrease hyperhidrosis. Dermatologic effects that have been reported during use of levodopa alone or carbidopa; levodopa combinations include rash (unspecified), hyperhidrosis, alopecia, flushing, and dark sweat. Hypersensitivity reactions have included angioedema, urticaria, pruritus, and bullous rash/lesions (including pemphigus-like reactions). Because levodopa may activate malignant melanoma, carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone is contraindicated in patients with a history of melanoma, or in patients with suspicious, undiagnosed pigmented lesions.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperhidrosis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      alopecia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      bullous rash
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      flushing
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    ataxia, dizziness, drowsiness, headache, insomnia, libido increase, memory impairment, nightmares, paresthesias, sudden sleep onset, tremor, trismus
    General Information
    During placebo-controlled trials assessing entacapone as add-on therapy to carbidopa; levodopa or its equivalent, the following centrally-mediated effects occurred more frequently in the entacapone treatment group than the placebo treatment group: dizziness (8% vs 6%) and drowsiness (2% vs 0%). Somnolence (2%) was among the most common causes of discontinuation of carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone therapy during clinical trials. There have been reports of patients receiving dopaminergic agents who have fallen asleep while performing activities of daily living, including driving. Excessive drowsiness has, in some cases, occurred as late as one year after the initiation of treatment. In some cases, sudden sleep onset has resulted in auto accidents or other harmful events in the course of daily living. Symptoms of excessive drowsiness may not be preceded by warning signs. Patients should be cautioned about driving or operating machinery, working at heights, or performing other tasks that require alertness while receiving carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone. Those who have experienced somnolence or a sudden episode of sleep while taking the drug should avoid these activities. Reassessment for oversedation is suggested throughout therapy; patients should notify their prescriber if they fall asleep during normal activities. The use of concomitant CNS depressant medications or sleep disorders may increase the risk of falling asleep while taking this medication; patients should be assessed for these risk factors prior to initiation of the drug and be advised of the additive risks for somnolence. Carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone should generally be discontinued in patients who experience episodes of falling asleep while engaged in activities of daily living. It is not known if a reduction in dosage will subsequently reduce or eliminate excessive somnolence or sudden episodes of sleep. Nocturnal effects may be improved by reducing or stopping the last evening dose or giving the last dose earlier in the evening. Adverse CNS effects reported during treatment with levodopa alone or carbidopa; levodopa formulations include dizziness, drowsiness, dream abnormalities (e.g., nightmares), insomnia, paresthesias, headache, libido increase, ataxia, extrapyramidal disorder, gait abnormalities, decreased mental acuity, memory impairment, trismus, tremor, numbness, muscle twitching, activation of latent Horner's syndrome, and neuropathy.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      trismus
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      tremor
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      paresthesias
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      memory impairment
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      libido increase
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      ataxia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      sudden sleep onset
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      nightmares
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    agranulocytosis, hemolytic anemia, infection, leukopenia, purpura, thrombocytopenia
    General Information
    Hematologic adverse events and infections have been reported during treatment with carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone. During placebo-controlled trials assessing entacapone as add-on therapy to carbidopa; levodopa or its equivalent, the following hematologic effects or infections occurred more frequently in the entacapone treatment group than the placebo treatment group: purpura (2% vs 1%) and bacterial infection (1% vs 0%). Leukopenia, non-hemolytic and hemolytic anemia, agranulocytosis, and thrombocytopenia have been reported during therapy with levodopa alone or carbidopa; levodopa and warrant temporary discontinuance of the drug. Urinary tract infection, decreased hemoglobin and hematocrit, decreased white blood cell count, white blood cells, bacteria, and blood in the urine, and abnormalities in the Coombs' test have also been reported during use of levodopa or carbidopa; levodopa combinations. Henoch-Schonlein purpura has been reported as a hypersensitivity reaction to carbidopa; levodopa.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      agranulocytosis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hemolytic anemia
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      leukopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      purpura
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    chest pain (unspecified), hypertension, myocardial infarction, orthostatic hypotension, palpitations, phlebitis, stroke, syncope
    General Information
    The most common cardiovascular effect of levodopa therapy is orthostatic hypotension and occurs even with therapeutic dosages. Tolerance usually develops within a few months. Due to enhancement of the dopaminergic effects of levodopa, entacapone has also been associated with hypotension or syncope (1.2%) in patients also receiving carbidopa; levodopa or its equivalent during clinical trials. Reports of syncope were generally more frequent in patients who had a previously documented episode of orthostatic hypotension. Cardiac effects (e.g., arrhythmias, hypertension, orthostatic hypotension, phlebitis, chest pain (unspecified), myocardial infarction, and palpitations) have been reported during treatment with levodopa alone or carbidopa; levodopa therapy. In 2010, the FDA required a study of the potential for cardiovascular risk with the entacapone component of carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone (Stalevo) to determine whether entacapone was associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular events including myocardial infarction, stroke, and cardiovascular death. This mandate followed possible cardiovascular safety issues observed in the Stalevo Reduction in Dyskinesia Evaluation in Parkinson’s Disease (STRIDE-PD) trial (i.e., 7 myocardial infarctions and one cardiovascular death in the carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone group vs. none in the carbidopa; levodopa group) and in a meta-analysis that combined the cardiovascular-related findings from 15 clinical trials comparing Stalevo to carbidopa/levodopa, an extensively used drug combination without an increased cardiovascular risk. Following a review of the new data, the FDA found no clear evidence of an increased risk of heart attacks, stroke, or other cardiovascular events associated with the use of entacapone for the treatment of Parkinson’s disease. It should be noted that STRIDE-PD was not designed to assess cardiac safety, and previous trials have not shown a difference in myocardial infarctions, stroke, or cardiovascular death between carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone and carbidopa; levodopa alone.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      myocardial infarction
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      orthostatic hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      palpitations
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      syncope
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      stroke
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      chest pain (unspecified)
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      phlebitis
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    increased urinary frequency, priapism, urinary incontinence, urinary retention, urine discoloration
    General Information
    Saliva, sweat, or urine discoloration may be noted during carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone therapy. The dark color (red, brown, or black) appears to be clinically insignificant, but may stain garments and other fabrics. During placebo-controlled trials assessing entacapone as add-on therapy to carbidopa; levodopa or its equivalent, urine discoloration occurred in 10% of patients in the entacapone treatment group and no patients in the placebo treatment group. Genitourinary (GU) effects that have been reported during treatment with levodopa alone or carbidopa; levodopa include urinary tract infection, increased urinary frequency, urinary retention, urinary incontinence, priapism, and urine discoloration.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      urine discoloration
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      increased urinary frequency
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      priapism
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      urinary incontinence
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      urinary retention
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    asthenia, edema, fatigue, hoarseness, hot flashes, malaise
    General Information
    During placebo-controlled trials assessing entacapone as add-on therapy to carbidopa; levodopa or its equivalent, the following general adverse effects occurred more frequently in the entacapone treatment group than the placebo treatment group: fatigue (6% vs 4%) and asthenia (2% vs 1%). General effects reported during treatment with levodopa alone or carbidopa; levodopa formulations include asthenia, abdominal pain and distress, edema, fatigue, bizarre breathing patterns, faintness, hoarseness, malaise, hot flashes, and sense of stimulation.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hot flashes
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hoarseness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      malaise
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    impulse control symptoms
    General Information
    Some patients receiving medications that increase dopaminergic tone have reported intense and uncontrollable urges to gamble, increased sexual urges, intense urges to spend money uncontrollably, or other intense urges. Causality due to dopaminergic agents has not been established; however, in some cases the urges stopped after the dose was reduced or the drug was discontinued. Practitioners should inquire periodically about new or worsening impulse control symptoms in patients receiving carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone. Likewise, patients should be instructed to report such changes while receiving carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone. Dose reduction or discontinuation should be considered in those who experience these effects.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      impulse control symptoms
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    back pain, muscle cramps
    General Information
    During placebo-controlled trials assessing entacapone as add-on therapy to carbidopa; levodopa or its equivalent, back pain was reported in 2% of patients in the entacapone treatment group and 1% of patients in the placebo treatment group. Adverse musculoskeletal effects reported during treatment with levodopa alone or carbidopa; levodopa formulations include back pain, shoulder pain, muscle cramps, and leg pain.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      back pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      muscle cramps
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    cough, dyspnea
    General Information
    During placebo-controlled trials assessing entacapone as add-on therapy to carbidopa; levodopa or its equivalent, dyspnea was reported in 3% of patients in the entacapone treatment group and 1% of patients in the placebo treatment group. Adverse respiratory effects reported during treatment with levodopa alone or carbidopa; levodopa formulations include dyspnea, upper respiratory infection, pharyngeal pain, and cough.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    peripheral neuropathy, seizures, vitamin B6 deficiency
    General Information
    Levodopa is a pyridoxine antagonist, and treatment with carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone may contribute to reduced vitamin B6 concentrations. Higher doses of carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone may increase the risk of vitamin B6 deficiency. Seizures associated with vitamin B6 deficiency have been reported in the postmarketing setting in people taking carbidopa; levodopa. In these reported cases, seizures were refractory to traditional antiseizure medications and only resolved after vitamin B6 administration. Other symptoms of vitamin B6 deficiency may occur, including depression, confusion, cheilosis, glossitis, dermatitis, anemia, and/or peripheral neuropathy. Evaluate vitamin B6 concentrations prior to initiation of carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone and periodically while on treatment, or if symptoms associated with vitamin B6 deficiency are identified. Supplementation with vitamin B6 may be necessary. Adverse CNS effects reported during treatment with levodopa alone or carbidopa; levodopa formulations include peripheral neuropathy.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral neuropathy
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      seizures
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      vitamin B6 deficiency
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    blepharospasm, blurred vision, diplopia, mydriasis
    General Information
    Adverse ophthalmic effects reported during treatment with levodopa alone or carbidopa; levodopa formulations include diplopia, blurred vision, blepharospasm, and dilated pupils (mydriasis). Similar effects are possible during treatment with carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      blurred vision
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      diplopia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      mydriasis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      blepharospasm
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes, glycosuria, hyperbilirubinemia, proteinuria
    General Information
    Elevated hepatic enzymes and hyperbilirubinemia have been reported with carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone. Laboratory test abnormalities reported during treatment include increases in alkaline phosphatase, AST, ALT, or lactic dehydrogenase; abnormal bilirubin or blood urea nitrogen (BUN); decreased serum potassium; increased serum creatinine or uric acid; and protein and glucose in the urine (proteinuria and glycosuria). Commonly, the levels of BUN, creatinine, and uric acid are lower during administration of carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone combinations than with levodopa alone.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      proteinuria
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      glycosuria
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hyperbilirubinemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    agitation, anxiety, confusion, depression, euphoria, hallucinations, paranoia, psychosis, suicidal ideation
    General Information
    During placebo-controlled trials assessing entacapone as add-on therapy to carbidopa; levodopa or its equivalent, the following psychiatric effects occurred more frequently in the entacapone treatment group than the placebo treatment group: anxiety (2% vs 1%) and agitation (1% vs 0%). Levodopa-induced psychiatric effects tend to be progressive and frequently a compromise must be reached between psychiatric effects and control of Parkinson symptoms. Psychiatric reactions including anxiety (2%) and agitation (1%) were among the most common causes of discontinuation of carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone therapy. Hallucinations developed in approximately 4% of patients treated with either entacapone or placebo in addition to levodopa therapy. The discontinuation rate due to hallucinations was 0.8% of patients in the entacapone group versus no patients in the placebo group. Hallucinations led to hospitalization in 1% of entacapone-treated patients versus 0.3% of placebo-treated patients. Adverse Psychiatric effects reported during treatment with levodopa alone or carbidopa; levodopa formulations include psychosis (delusions, hallucinations, paranoia), confusion, agitation, depression, suicidal ideation, anxiety, nervousness, disorientation, and euphoria.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      paranoia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      agitation
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anxiety
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      confusion
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      depression
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      euphoria
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hallucinations
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      psychosis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      suicidal ideation
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    laboratory test interference
    General Information
    Rarely, falsely diagnosed pheochromocytoma has been reported in patients receiving levodopa due to a laboratory test interference. Caution should be exercised when interpreting the plasma and urine levels of catecholamines and their metabolites in people taking carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone therapy. Other laboratory test interference reported during treatment with levodopa alone or carbidopa; levodopa combinations include a false positive reaction for urinary ketone bodies when a test tape is used for determination of ketonuria and false negative tests with the use of glucose-oxidase methods of testing for glucosuria.
    Headline
    pulmonary fibrosis, retroperitoneal fibrosis
    General Information
    Four cases of pulmonary fibrosis were reported during clinical development of entacapone; in these cases, 3 of the patients were also treated with pergolide and 1 with bromocriptine. The duration of treatment with entacapone ranged from 7 to 17 months. Fibrotic-related complications, such as retroperitoneal fibrosis, pulmonary fibrosis, pleural effusion, and pleural thickening, have been reported in some subjects receiving ergot-derived dopaminergic agents (e.g., bromocriptine). Although these events are thought to be associated with the ergoline structure of such compounds, the possibility that non-ergot derived drugs such as entacapone or levodopa can cause them cannot be excluded.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      retroperitoneal fibrosis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      pulmonary fibrosis
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    neuroleptic malignant syndrome
    General Information
    Rare cases of a symptom complex resembling neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) have been reported following abrupt discontinuation or dose reduction of carbidopa; levodopa, especially in patients receiving antipsychotic agents concomitantly. Observe patients carefully when the dosage of carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone is abruptly reduced or discontinued. The early diagnosis of this condition is important for appropriate management. Patients should be observed closely for manifestations of NMS complex, which include tachycardia, muscular rigidity, elevation of body temperature (fever or hyperthermia), mental status changes (e.g., confused state), increased sweating, tachypnea, and increases in serum creatinine levels. Altered consciousness, leukocytosis, elevated creatine kinase (CK) concentrations, myoglobinuria, and increased serum myoglobin have also been reported. Rapid re-emergence of Parkinson disease symptoms may occur on entacapone withdrawal, and concurrent dopaminergic therapies may need an upward dosage adjustment.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      neuroleptic malignant syndrome
      Severity
      Severe

Description
  Text
  Carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone is a combination product for the treatment of idiopathic Parkinson's disease in adult patients who experience the end-of dose 'wearing off' effect of levodopa. Carbidopa; Levodopa and Entacapone have been used together successfully as separate dosage formulations. Carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone is indicated as a substitution (with equivalent strengths) for patients previously taking these drugs separately, and is also indicated to replace immediate-release carbidopa/levodopa therapy when entacapone-naive patients experience the end-of dose 'wearing off' effect. Three 24-week pivotal trials demonstrated increased 'on' time, reduced 'off' time, improved motor function and improved activities of daily living with carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone. Patients who receive carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone should have previously been receiving levodopa 600 mg/day or less and have no associated dyskinesias. The FDA granted approval for carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone as a combination product in 2003.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  The combination of levodopa with carbidopa and entacapone are used together for the treatment of Parkinson's disease. Current evidence indicates that symptoms of Parkinson's disease are related to depletion of dopamine in the corpus striatum. Administration of dopamine is ineffective in the treatment of Parkinson's disease because it does not cross the blood-brain barrier. The administration of these drugs increases dopamine levels within the corpus striatum.
Levodopa: Levodopa is the metabolic precursor of dopamine. Levodopa diffuses into the central nervous system where it is converted to dopamine. The resulting change in dopamine-acetylcholine balance is believed to improve nerve impulse control and to be the basis of the drug's antiparkinsonian activity.
Carbidopa: Carbidopa is a noncompetitive decarboxylase inhibitor that, when administered with levodopa, inhibits the peripheral conversion of levodopa to dopamine, thereby increasing the CNS bioavailability of levodopa by roughly 75%. Carbidopa does not cross the blood-brain barrier. The addition of carbidopa allows lower doses of levodopa to be used and minimizes adverse reactions from levodopa such as nausea and vomiting. The carbidopa-levodopa combination also allows for a more rapid and even titration of levodopa dosage. With combination therapy, certain adverse effects (e.g., dyskinesias) will occur sooner and at lower levodopa dosages during therapy than with levodopa alone, as these adverse effects are centrally mediated.
Entacapone: Entacapone is a reversible, selective inhibitor of peripheral catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT). COMT acts to eliminate biologically active catechols and their metabolites. The effect of entacapone on central COMT activity in humans is not known, although in animals COMT is inhibited. COMT catalyzes the transfer of the methyl group of S-adenyl-L-methionine to the phenolic group of substrates that contain a catechol structure, including dopamine. COMT is distributed throughout various organs with the highest level of activity in the liver and kidney; activity is also present in neuronal glial cells. Inhibition of COMT by entacapone and inhibition of decarboxylase by carbidopa results in more sustained plasma concentrations of levodopa and markedly lower metabolite (3-O-methyldopa) concentrations. The levodopa metabolite has been associated with reduced efficacy, the 'wearing-off' phenomenon, and dyskinesia. As a result, more levodopa is available for diffusion into the CNS where it is converted to dopamine. Increased levodopa bioavailability and duration of action may lead to increased levodopa adverse effects, sometimes requiring a reduction in the levodopa dosage. In one study, the single dose administration of entacapone had no effect on cardiovascular autonomic regulation (blood pressure and pulse) in patients currently receiving carbidopa; levodopa.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Four carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone dosage strengths (12.5/50/200 mg, 25/100/200 mg, 37.5/150/200 mg, and 50/200/200 mg) have been shown to be bioequivalent to corresponding doses of immediate-release carbidopa; levodopa or entacapone. Inter- and intra-individual absorption of carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone can be highly variable, and may markedly affect peak plasma concentrations (Cmax). However, the mean plasma concentrations of carbidopa; levodopa and entacapone, whether administered separately as carbidopa; levodopa tablets and entacapone or as the single tablet formulation (carbidopa-levodopa-entacapone), are similar with corresponding doses.
Carbidopa; Levodopa: The maximum concentrations of levodopa occur between 1.1 to 1.8 hours, while carbidopa is absorbed more slowly (Tmax roughly 2.5 to 3.4 hours). Because levodopa competes with certain amino acids for transport across the gut wall, the absorption of levodopa may be impaired in some patients after eating a high protein meal. Meals rich in large neutral amino acids may delay and reduce the absorption of levodopa. The manufacturer has not conducted food-effect studies with carbidopa-levodopa-entacapone, but similar results would be expected.
Entacapone: The absorption of entacapone is rapid (Tmax roughly 0.8 to 1.2 hours).
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    There are no studies on the pharmacokinetics of levodopa and carbidopa in patients with hepatic impairment. Patients with biliary obstruction or hepatic impairment are at risk for accumulation of entacapone. Hepatic impairment had a significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of entacapone. A single 200-mg dose of entacapone, without levodopa and dopa decarboxylase inhibitor coadministration, showed approximately 2-fold higher AUC and Cmax values in patients with a history of alcoholism and hepatic impairment (n = 10) compared to normal subjects (n = 10). All patients had biopsy-proven liver cirrhosis caused by alcohol. According to Child-Pugh grading 7 patients with liver disease had mild hepatic impairment and 3 patients had moderate hepatic impairment. Biliary excretion appears to be the major route of excretion of this drug.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    There are no studies on the pharmacokinetics of levodopa and carbidopa in patients with renal impairment. Renal impairment does not appear to affect the pharmacokinetics of entacapone.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    The AUC of levodopa and entacapone is significantly higher (roughly 15%) in elderly (60 to 75 years) vs. younger adults (45 to 60 years); however, Cmax was unaffected.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    The bioavailability of levodopa is significantly higher in females vs. males (on average, 40% higher for AUC and 30% for Cmax), primarily due to differences in body weight. Other published literature showed significant gender effect (higher levodopa concentrations in females) even after correction for body weight.
  Text
  The combination of carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone is administered orally. When entacapone is given with levodopa and carbidopa, the AUC of levodopa is increased by approximately 35% and the elimination half-life of levodopa is increased from 1.3 hours to 2.4 hours. Due to the short half-lives, no accumulation of the any of the 3 drugs occurs with repeat administration.
Carbidopa; Levodopa: The plasma protein binding of carbidopa; levodopa; is negligible. The addition of carbidopa to levodopa therapy prolongs the half-life of levodopa from 50 minutes to 1.5 hours; the Tmax of levodopa is unaffected. Carbidopa and levodopa are both metabolized. Levodopa is extensively metabolized to metabolites. Two major pathways are decarboxylation by dopa decarboxylase (DDC) and O-methylation by catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT). Carbidopa is metabolized to 2 major metabolites that are excreted unchanged or as a glucuronide conjugate in the urine; 30% of carbidopa is excreted unchanged in the urine. The average elimination half-lives of carbidopa and levodopa are 1.6 to 2 hours (range: 0.7 to 4 hours)  and 1.7 hours (range: 1.1 to 3.2 hours), respectively.
Entacapone: Entacapone is 98% protein bound, primarily to serum albumin, with an average elimination half-life of one hour. Entacapone is extensively and almost completely metabolized in the liver to the active cis-isomer. Glucuronidation to inactive metabolites is the main metabolic pathway of the active cis-isomer. Entacapone and the cis-isomer metabolites are eliminated in the urine as glucuronide conjugates; only 0.2% of unchanged entacapone is found in the urine. Elimination pathways consist of 10% urinary excretion (70% as the active cis-isomer and 25% as the glucuronidated cis-isomer). Biliary excretion is a major elimination pathway (90%) of the parent and metabolites.The elimination half-life of entacapone was on average 0.8 hour to 1 hour (0.3 hour to 4.5 hours).
 
Affected cytochrome P450 (CYP450) isoenzymes and drug transporters: COMT, CYP2C9
Entacapone is a selective and reversible inhibitor of catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) and may influence the pharmacokinetics of drugs metabolized by COMT. Due to its affinity to CYP2C9 in vitro, entacapone may potentially interfere with medicinal products with metabolism dependent on this isoenzyme. Entacapone has been reported to increase the exposure of warfarin (a CYP2C9 substrate). In vitro studies have shown that entacapone can inhibit CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2C6, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP2E1 and CYP3A4, but only at very high concentrations (IC50 more than 200 microM) that would not be seen with normal clinical use. A 200 mg entacapone dose in adults usually produces a concentration of 5 microM.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Tablets, film-coated
Administer tablets whole. Do not split, crush or chew the tablets.
May administer with or without food. However, a high-fat, high-calorie meal may delay the absorption of levodopa by about 2 hours. A change to a high-protein diet may also result in delayed absorption.
Only 1 tablet of carbidopa-levodopa-entacapone should be administered at each dose. Combining multiple tablets or portions of tablets to achieve a higher levodopa dose may lead to an overdose of the entacapone component.
Advise patients that dark coloration (red, brown, or black) may appear in saliva, urine, or sweat. The color change is not harmful, but garments may become discolored.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    Do not exceed 1 tablet of carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone per dose. Daily limits: 300 mg/day PO carbidopa; 1,200 mg/day PO levodopa; 1,600 mg/day PO of entacapone. The maximum for tablets (50-, 75-, 100- or 150-mg of levodopa) is 8 tablets/day PO. The maximum for tablets with 200-mg of levodopa is 6 tablets/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    Do not exceed 1 tablet of carbidopa; levodopa; entacapone per dose. Daily limits: 300 mg/day PO carbidopa; 1,200 mg/day PO levodopa; 1,600 mg/day PO of entacapone. The maximum for tablets (50-, 75-, 100- or 150-mg of levodopa) is 8 tablets/day PO. The maximum for tablets with 200-mg of levodopa is 6 tablets/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safe and effective use has not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safe and effective use has not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Not indicated.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Patients with biliary obstruction or hepatic impairment should be treated with caution; carefully adjust dosage to clinical response. Specific dosage adjustment guidelines are not available.
  Renal Impairment
  No specific dosage adjustments are required.
