=== Avutometinib/Defactinib — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 5602)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Avutometinib is a mitogen-activated protein kinase 1 (MEK1) inhibitor.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: Avutometinib 3.2 mg PO twice weekly.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): blurred vision, photophobia, photopsia, retinal detachment, retinal disorders, retinopathy, visual impairment, xerophthalmia, dizziness, dysgeusia, headache, peripheral neuropathy, anemia, lymphopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Obtain a comprehensive ophthalmic exam at baseline, prior to cycle 2, every three cycles thereafter, and as clinically indicated. Promptly refer patients to an eye care professional for any new or worsening ocular signs or symptoms. Patient counseling: Limit unnecessary exposure to sunlight and apply sunscreen (SPF greater than or equal to 30) daily. Emetic risk: Moderate/high

AVUTOMETINIB/DEFACTINIB

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Avmapki Fakzynja

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of ovarian cancer

For the treatment of KRAS-mutated recurrent low-grade serous ovarian cancer (LGSOC) in patients who have received prior systemic therapy
Oral dosage
Adults


Avutometinib 3.2 mg PO twice weekly during weeks 1, 2, and 3 (on days 1 and 4 of each week), in combination with defactinib (200 mg PO twice daily on days 1 to 21), followed by 1 week off, every 28 days until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. Treatment with avutometinib; defactinib resulted in an overall response rate of 44% (complete response, 3.5%) for a duration ranging from 3.3 to 31.1 months in patients with measurable KRAS-mutated recurrent low-grade serous ovarian cancer (LGSOC) in a multicenter, open-label clinical trial (RAMP-201).


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

ocular disease


Use avutometinib; defactinib with caution in patients with a history of ocular disease or vision problems; ocular adverse reactions including visual impairment and vitreoretinal disorders have been reported in patients who received avutometinib; defactinib. Obtain a comprehensive ophthalmic exam at baseline, prior to cycle 2, every three cycles thereafter, and as clinically indicated. Promptly refer patients to an eye care professional for any new or worsening ocular signs or symptoms. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or permanent discontinuation of therapy may be necessary in patients who develop persistent or severe ocular toxicity.


Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

pregnancy


Pregnancy should be avoided during avutometinib; defactinib treatment and for at least 1 month after the last dose. Although there are no adequately controlled human studies in pregnancy or animal reproductive and developmental toxicity studies, avutometinib; defactinib can cause fetal harm or death when administered during pregnancy based on its mechanism of action. Individuals who are pregnant or who may become pregnant while receiving avutometinib; defactinib should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus.


people who can cause pregnancy in others, people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk


Counsel patients about the reproductive risk associated with avutometinib; defactinib. People who may become pregnant should avoid pregnancy and use effective contraception during and for at least 1 month after the last dose of avutometinib; defactinib. People who can cause pregnancy in others should use effective contraception during treatment and for 4 months after the last dose. People who may become pregnant should undergo pregnancy testing prior to initiation of avutometinib; defactinib. Individuals who become pregnant while receiving avutometinib; defactinib should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus. Based on animal studies, avutometinib; defactinib may impair fertility in both people who can become pregnant and in those who can cause pregnancy; these effects were not reversible in animals.


breast-feeding


Due to the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from avutometinib; defactinib, advise individuals to discontinue breast-feeding during treatment and for 2 weeks after the final dose. It is not known whether avutometinib; defactinib is present in human milk, although many drugs are excreted in human milk.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Pregnancy should be avoided during avutometinib; defactinib treatment and for at least 1 month after the last dose. Although there are no adequately controlled human studies in pregnancy or animal reproductive and developmental toxicity studies, avutometinib; defactinib can cause fetal harm or death when administered during pregnancy based on its mechanism of action. Individuals who are pregnant or who may become pregnant while receiving avutometinib; defactinib should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus.


Interactions

Adagrasib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and adagrasib due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased defactinib overall exposure by 3.9-fold.
Aluminum Hydroxide: (Moderate) Separate the administration times for defactinib and antacids by at least 2 hours if concomitant use is necessary. Medications that alter gastric pH interfere with defactinib oral absorption which may decrease defactinib exposure and efficacy.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Carbonate: (Moderate) Separate the administration times for defactinib and antacids by at least 2 hours if concomitant use is necessary. Medications that alter gastric pH interfere with defactinib oral absorption which may decrease defactinib exposure and efficacy.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Separate the administration times for defactinib and antacids by at least 2 hours if concomitant use is necessary. Medications that alter gastric pH interfere with defactinib oral absorption which may decrease defactinib exposure and efficacy.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Separate the administration times for defactinib and antacids by at least 2 hours if concomitant use is necessary. Medications that alter gastric pH interfere with defactinib oral absorption which may decrease defactinib exposure and efficacy.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Trisilicate: (Moderate) Separate the administration times for defactinib and antacids by at least 2 hours if concomitant use is necessary. Medications that alter gastric pH interfere with defactinib oral absorption which may decrease defactinib exposure and efficacy.
Amobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease defactinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced defactinib overall exposure by 87%.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased defactinib overall exposure by 3.9-fold. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Concurrent use interferes with defactinib absorption which may decrease defactinib exposure and efficacy. Concomitant use with a PPI reduced defactinib overall exposure by 79% and reduced the exposure of the M4 active metabolite by 83%.
Antacids: (Moderate) Separate the administration times for defactinib and antacids by at least 2 hours if concomitant use is necessary. Medications that alter gastric pH interfere with defactinib oral absorption which may decrease defactinib exposure and efficacy.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease defactinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced defactinib overall exposure by 87%.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and aprepitant/fosaprepitant due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and aprepitant/fosaprepitant is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease defactinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced defactinib overall exposure by 87%.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Separate the administration times for defactinib and sodium bicarbonate by at least 2 hours if concomitant use is necessary. Medications that alter gastric pH interfere with defactinib oral absorption which may decrease defactinib exposure and efficacy.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Concurrent use interferes with defactinib absorption which may decrease defactinib exposure and efficacy. Concomitant use with a PPI reduced defactinib overall exposure by 79% and reduced the exposure of the M4 active metabolite by 83%.
Atazanavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and atazanavir due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased defactinib overall exposure by 3.9-fold.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and atazanavir due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased defactinib overall exposure by 3.9-fold. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and cobicistat due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased defactinib overall exposure by 3.9-fold.
Avacopan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and avacopan due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Barbiturates: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease defactinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced defactinib overall exposure by 87%.
Berotralstat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and berotralstat due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and berotralstat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Bexarotene: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and bexarotene. Concurrent use may decrease defactinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and bexarotene is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and lenacapavir due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Bosentan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and bosentan. Concurrent use may decrease defactinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and bosentan is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease defactinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced defactinib overall exposure by 87%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease defactinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced defactinib overall exposure by 87%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease defactinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced defactinib overall exposure by 87%.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease defactinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced defactinib overall exposure by 87%.
Calcium Carbonate: (Moderate) Separate the administration times for defactinib and calcium carbonate by at least 2 hours if concomitant use is necessary. Medications that alter gastric pH interfere with defactinib oral absorption which may decrease defactinib exposure and efficacy.
Calcium Carbonate; Famotidine; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and H2-blockers. Concurrent use interferes with defactinib absorption which may decrease defactinib exposure and efficacy. (Moderate) Separate the administration times for defactinib and calcium carbonate by at least 2 hours if concomitant use is necessary. Medications that alter gastric pH interfere with defactinib oral absorption which may decrease defactinib exposure and efficacy.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Separate the administration times for defactinib and calcium carbonate by at least 2 hours if concomitant use is necessary. Medications that alter gastric pH interfere with defactinib oral absorption which may decrease defactinib exposure and efficacy.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Separate the administration times for defactinib and calcium carbonate by at least 2 hours if concomitant use is necessary. Medications that alter gastric pH interfere with defactinib oral absorption which may decrease defactinib exposure and efficacy.
Calcium Carbonate; Simethicone: (Moderate) Separate the administration times for defactinib and calcium carbonate by at least 2 hours if concomitant use is necessary. Medications that alter gastric pH interfere with defactinib oral absorption which may decrease defactinib exposure and efficacy.
Calcium; Vitamin D: (Moderate) Separate the administration times for defactinib and calcium carbonate by at least 2 hours if concomitant use is necessary. Medications that alter gastric pH interfere with defactinib oral absorption which may decrease defactinib exposure and efficacy.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and carbamazepine. Concurrent use may decrease defactinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and carbamazepine is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced defactinib overall exposure by 87%.
Cenobamate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and cenobamate. Concurrent use may decrease defactinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and cenobamate is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Ceritinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and ceritinib due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and ceritinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased defactinib overall exposure by 3.9-fold.
Chloramphenicol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and chloramphenicol due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased defactinib overall exposure by 3.9-fold.
Cimetidine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and H2-blockers. Concurrent use interferes with defactinib absorption which may decrease defactinib exposure and efficacy.
Ciprofloxacin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and ciprofloxacin due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and ciprofloxacin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased defactinib overall exposure by 3.9-fold.
Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and cobicistat due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased defactinib overall exposure by 3.9-fold.
Conivaptan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and conivaptan due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and conivaptan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Crizotinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and crizotinib due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and crizotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
cycloSPORINE: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and cyclosporine due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and cyclosporine is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Dabrafenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and dabrafenib. Concurrent use may decrease defactinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and dabrafenib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Darunavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and darunavir due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased defactinib overall exposure by 3.9-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and cobicistat due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased defactinib overall exposure by 3.9-fold. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and darunavir due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased defactinib overall exposure by 3.9-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and cobicistat due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased defactinib overall exposure by 3.9-fold. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and darunavir due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased defactinib overall exposure by 3.9-fold.
Dexlansoprazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Concurrent use interferes with defactinib absorption which may decrease defactinib exposure and efficacy. Concomitant use with a PPI reduced defactinib overall exposure by 79% and reduced the exposure of the M4 active metabolite by 83%.
dilTIAZem: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and diltiazem due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and diltiazem is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Dronedarone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and dronedarone due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Duvelisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and duvelisib due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and duvelisib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Efavirenz: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and efavirenz. Concurrent use may decrease defactinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and efavirenz. Concurrent use may decrease defactinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and efavirenz. Concurrent use may decrease defactinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Elagolix: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and elagolix. Concurrent use may decrease defactinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and elagolix is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and elagolix. Concurrent use may decrease defactinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and elagolix is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and cobicistat due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased defactinib overall exposure by 3.9-fold.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and cobicistat due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased defactinib overall exposure by 3.9-fold.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and encorafenib. Concurrent use may decrease defactinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced defactinib overall exposure by 87%.
Ensitrelvir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and ensitrelvir due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased defactinib overall exposure by 3.9-fold.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and enzalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease defactinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced defactinib overall exposure by 87%.
Erythromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and erythromycin due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and erythromycin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Eslicarbazepine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and eslicarbazepine. Concurrent use may decrease defactinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and eslicarbazepine is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Esomeprazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Concurrent use interferes with defactinib absorption which may decrease defactinib exposure and efficacy. Concomitant use with a PPI reduced defactinib overall exposure by 79% and reduced the exposure of the M4 active metabolite by 83%.
Etravirine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and etravirine. Concurrent use may decrease defactinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and etravirine is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Famotidine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and H2-blockers. Concurrent use interferes with defactinib absorption which may decrease defactinib exposure and efficacy.
Fedratinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and fedratinib due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and fedratinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and fexinidazole. Concurrent use may decrease defactinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Fluconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and fluconazole due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and fluconazole is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
fluvoxaMINE: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and fluvoxamine due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and fluvoxamine is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Fosamprenavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and fosamprenavir due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and fosamprenavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and fosphenytoin. Concurrent use may decrease defactinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and fosphenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use reduced defactinib overall exposure by 87%.
Grapefruit juice: (Major) Advise patients to avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice during defactinib treatment due to the risk of increased defactinib exposure and adverse reactions. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and grapefruit juice is a CYP3A inhibitor.
H2-blockers: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and H2-blockers. Concurrent use interferes with defactinib absorption which may decrease defactinib exposure and efficacy.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and H2-blockers. Concurrent use interferes with defactinib absorption which may decrease defactinib exposure and efficacy.
Idelalisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and idelalisib due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and idelalisib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased defactinib overall exposure by 3.9-fold.
Imatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and imatinib due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and imatinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Isavuconazonium: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and isavuconazonium due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and isavuconazonium is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Itraconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and itraconazole due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and itraconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use increased defactinib overall exposure by 3.9-fold.
Ketoconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and ketoconazole due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased defactinib overall exposure by 3.9-fold.
Lansoprazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Concurrent use interferes with defactinib absorption which may decrease defactinib exposure and efficacy. Concomitant use with a PPI reduced defactinib overall exposure by 79% and reduced the exposure of the M4 active metabolite by 83%.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased defactinib overall exposure by 3.9-fold. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Concurrent use interferes with defactinib absorption which may decrease defactinib exposure and efficacy. Concomitant use with a PPI reduced defactinib overall exposure by 79% and reduced the exposure of the M4 active metabolite by 83%.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and oral lefamulin due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and oral lefamulin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Lenacapavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and lenacapavir due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Letermovir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and letermovir due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and letermovir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Levoketoconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and ketoconazole due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased defactinib overall exposure by 3.9-fold.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and lonafarnib due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased defactinib overall exposure by 3.9-fold.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and ritonavir due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased defactinib overall exposure by 3.9-fold.
Lorlatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and lorlatinib. Concurrent use may decrease defactinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Concurrent use may decrease defactinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced defactinib overall exposure by 87%.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Concurrent use may decrease defactinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced defactinib overall exposure by 87%.
Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Separate the administration times for defactinib and antacids by at least 2 hours if concomitant use is necessary. Medications that alter gastric pH interfere with defactinib oral absorption which may decrease defactinib exposure and efficacy.
Magnesium Salts: (Moderate) Separate the administration times for defactinib and antacids by at least 2 hours if concomitant use is necessary. Medications that alter gastric pH interfere with defactinib oral absorption which may decrease defactinib exposure and efficacy.
Methohexital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease defactinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced defactinib overall exposure by 87%.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and mifepristone due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and mifepristone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased defactinib overall exposure by 3.9-fold.
Mitotane: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease defactinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced defactinib overall exposure by 87%.
Nafcillin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and nafcillin. Concurrent use may decrease defactinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and nafcillin is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Concurrent use interferes with defactinib absorption which may decrease defactinib exposure and efficacy. Concomitant use with a PPI reduced defactinib overall exposure by 79% and reduced the exposure of the M4 active metabolite by 83%.
Nefazodone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and nefazodone due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and nefazodone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased defactinib overall exposure by 3.9-fold.
Nelfinavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and nelfinavir due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and nelfinavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased defactinib overall exposure by 3.9-fold.
Netupitant, Fosnetupitant; Palonosetron: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and netupitant due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and netupitant is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Nilotinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and nilotinib due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and nilotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and ritonavir due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased defactinib overall exposure by 3.9-fold.
Nirogacestat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and nirogacestat due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and nirogacestat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Nizatidine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and H2-blockers. Concurrent use interferes with defactinib absorption which may decrease defactinib exposure and efficacy.
Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Concurrent use interferes with defactinib absorption which may decrease defactinib exposure and efficacy. Concomitant use with a PPI reduced defactinib overall exposure by 79% and reduced the exposure of the M4 active metabolite by 83%.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Concurrent use interferes with defactinib absorption which may decrease defactinib exposure and efficacy. Concomitant use with a PPI reduced defactinib overall exposure by 79% and reduced the exposure of the M4 active metabolite by 83%. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and rifabutin. Concurrent use may decrease defactinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Omeprazole; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Concurrent use interferes with defactinib absorption which may decrease defactinib exposure and efficacy. Concomitant use with a PPI reduced defactinib overall exposure by 79% and reduced the exposure of the M4 active metabolite by 83%. (Moderate) Separate the administration times for defactinib and sodium bicarbonate by at least 2 hours if concomitant use is necessary. Medications that alter gastric pH interfere with defactinib oral absorption which may decrease defactinib exposure and efficacy.
Pacritinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and pacritinib. Concurrent use may decrease defactinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Pantoprazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Concurrent use interferes with defactinib absorption which may decrease defactinib exposure and efficacy. Concomitant use with a PPI reduced defactinib overall exposure by 79% and reduced the exposure of the M4 active metabolite by 83%.
PENTobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease defactinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced defactinib overall exposure by 87%.
Pexidartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and pexidartinib. Concurrent use may decrease defactinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and pexidartinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease defactinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced defactinib overall exposure by 87%.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease defactinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced defactinib overall exposure by 87%.
Phenytoin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and phenytoin. Concurrent use may decrease defactinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use reduced defactinib overall exposure by 87%.
Posaconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and posaconazole due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and posaconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased defactinib overall exposure by 3.9-fold.
Primidone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease defactinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced defactinib overall exposure by 87%.
Proton pump inhibitors: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Concurrent use interferes with defactinib absorption which may decrease defactinib exposure and efficacy. Concomitant use with a PPI reduced defactinib overall exposure by 79% and reduced the exposure of the M4 active metabolite by 83%.
RABEprazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Concurrent use interferes with defactinib absorption which may decrease defactinib exposure and efficacy. Concomitant use with a PPI reduced defactinib overall exposure by 79% and reduced the exposure of the M4 active metabolite by 83%.
Relacorilant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and relacorilant due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased defactinib overall exposure by 3.9-fold.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and repotrectinib. Concurrent use may decrease defactinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Ribociclib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and ribociclib due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of 400 mg/day and a strong CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of at least 600 mg/day.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and ribociclib due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of 400 mg/day and a strong CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of at least 600 mg/day.
Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and rifabutin. Concurrent use may decrease defactinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and rifampin. Concurrent use may decrease defactinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced defactinib overall exposure by 87%.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and rifapentine. Concurrent use may decrease defactinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced defactinib overall exposure by 87%.
Rilzabrutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and rilzabrutinib due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Ritlecitinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and ritlecitinib due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and ritonavir due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased defactinib overall exposure by 3.9-fold.
Saquinavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and saquinavir due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and saquinavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased defactinib overall exposure by 3.9-fold.
Secobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease defactinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced defactinib overall exposure by 87%.
Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Separate the administration times for defactinib and sodium bicarbonate by at least 2 hours if concomitant use is necessary. Medications that alter gastric pH interfere with defactinib oral absorption which may decrease defactinib exposure and efficacy.
Sotorasib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and sotorasib. Concurrent use may decrease defactinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and sotorasib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and St. John's wort. Concurrent use may decrease defactinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and St. John's wort is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced defactinib overall exposure by 87%.
Tipranavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and tipranavir due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and tipranavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased defactinib overall exposure by 3.9-fold.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and verapamil due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Tucatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and tucatinib due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased defactinib overall exposure by 3.9-fold.
Verapamil: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and verapamil due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and clarithromycin due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased defactinib overall exposure by 3.9-fold.
Voriconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and voriconazole due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and voriconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased defactinib overall exposure by 3.9-fold.
Voxelotor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and voxelotor due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Warfarin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of avutometinib and warfarin due to an increased risk for INR elevations and bleeding. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor INR frequently. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and warfarin due to an increased risk for INR elevations and bleeding. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor INR frequently.


Adverse Reaction
blurred vision, photophobia, photopsia, retinal detachment, retinal disorders, retinopathy, visual impairment, xerophthalmia


Avutometinib; defactinib can cause ocular toxicity, including visual impairment and vitreoretinal/retinal disorders. Ocular adverse reactions occurred in 68% of patients in a pooled safety population treated with avutometinib; defactinib, including visual impairment (38%), xerophthalmia (13%), orbital/periorbital edema (8%), and vitreous floaters (5%). Thirty-five patients (26%) experienced vitreoretinal disorders, including retinal detachment (9%) and retinal vein occlusion (0.7%). The median time to onset of symptomatic ocular adverse reactions was 5 days, the median time to onset of asymptomatic ocular adverse reactions was 112 days, and the median time to onset of retinal detachment was 27 days. Twenty-nine percent (29%) of patients with ocular toxicity had ongoing ocular effects at the time of last follow-up. In the RAMP-201 trial, vitreoretinal disorders (37%; grade 3 or 4, 3.5%), visual impairment (35%), and dry eye (12%) were reported in patients with KRAS-mutated low grade serous ovarian cancer treated with avutometinib; defactinib. The term vitreoretinal disorders included chorioretinopathy, detachment of retinal pigment epithelium, macular fibrosis, macular hole, maculopathy, retinal detachment, retinal drusen, retinal vein occlusion, retinopathy, subretinal fluid, vitreous detachment, and vitreous floaters. The term vial impairment included asthenopia, astigmatism, halo vision, metamorphopsia, photophobia, photopsia, blurred vision, and visual field defect. If ocular adverse effects occur, promptly refer to an eye care professional; an interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary depending on the severity.


acneiform rash, acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP), alopecia, Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS), erythema, erythema multiforme, folliculitis, maculopapular rash, photosensitivity, pruritus, rash, urticaria, xerosis


Avutometinib; defactinib can cause serious skin toxicities including Severe Cutaneous Adverse Reactions (SCARs), erythema multiforme, acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP), and Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS). In a pooled safety population, skin toxicities occurred in 94% of patients receiving avutometinib; defactinib. The most common skin toxicities were rash (67%; grade 3, 7%), acneiform rash (43%; grade 3, 7%), xerosis/dry skin (43%), pruritus (32%; grade 3, 1.5%), and photosensitivity (13%); "rash" included butterfly rash, dermatitis, drug eruption, erythema, erythematous rash, maculopapular rash, and pruritic rash and "acneiform rash" included acne, folliculitis, perioral dermatitis, and pustular rash. Thirteen patients (10%) developed bacterial skin infections. The median time to onset of the first skin toxicity was 14 days; at time of last follow-up, 66% of patients had ongoing skin toxicity. Alopecia (23%) and urticaria (less than 10%) were additionally reported in patients treated with avutometinib; defactinib in the RAMP-201 trial. Topical corticosteroids and systemic oral antibiotics should be initiated at the start of avutometinib; defactinib treatment and continue for at least the first 2 cycles; limit unnecessary exposure to sunlight and apply sunscreen daily (sun protection factor [SPF] 30 or more). If skin toxicity occurs, an interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary depending on the severity.


elevated hepatic enzymes, hyperbilirubinemia


Avutometinib; defactinib can cause hepatotoxicity including elevated hepatic enzymes and hyperbilirubinemia. In a pooled safety population, increased AST occurred in 73% (grade 3 or 4, 3%), increased ALT in 49% (grade 3 or 4, 3%), increased bilirubin in 51% (grade 3 or 4, 2.3%), and increased alkaline phosphatase in 46% (grade 3 or 4, 0.8%) of patients who received avutometinib; defactinib. Increased bilirubin levels may be attributed to defactinib due to inhibition of enzymes responsible for metabolizing (UGT1A1) and transporting (OATP1B1/1B3) bilirubin. If hepatotoxicity occurs, an interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary depending on the severity.


elevated creatine kinase, rhabdomyolysis


Avutometinib; defactinib can cause elevated creatine kinase/creatine phosphokinase (CPK) and rhabdomyolysis. In a pooled safety population, increased CPK occurred in 75% (grade 3 or 4, 18%) of patients treated with avutometinib; defactinib. Among patients with increased CPK, concurrent increases in serum creatinine occurred in 19% and myalgia in 10%. Increases in CPK more than 10 times the baseline value with a concurrent increase in serum creatinine of 1.5 times the baseline value or more occurred in 0.7% of patients; rhabdomyolysis was reported in 1 patient. If increases in creatine phosphokinase or rhabdomyolysis occur, an interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary depending on the severity.


abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, nausea, stomatitis, vomiting, xerostomia


Nausea (74%; grade 3 or 4, 1.8%) and vomiting (49%; grade 3 or 4, 3.5%) were reported in patients with KRAS-mutated recurrent low grade serous ovarian cancer treated with avutometinib; defactinib in the RAMP-201 trial. Additional gastrointestinal adverse reactions reported include diarrhea (68%; grade 3 or 4, 7%), abdominal pain (39%; grade 3 or 4, 1.8%), dyspepsia (37%), stomatitis (35%; grade 3 or 4, 3.5%), constipation (30%), and xerostomia (18%).


fatigue


Fatigue was reported 72% (grade 3 or 4, 3.5%) of patients treated with avutometinib; defactinib in a single-arm clinical trial.


edema


Edema (67%; grade 3 or 4, 1.8%) and joint swelling (11%) were reported in patients with KRAS-mutated low grade serous ovarian cancer treated with avutometinib; defactinib in a single-arm clinical trial.


musculoskeletal pain


Musculoskeletal pain was reported in 68% (grade 3 or 4, 1.8%) of patients treated with avutometinib; defactinib in the RAMP-201 trial.


cough, dyspnea


Dyspnea (26%; grade 3 or 4, 5.3%) and cough (25%) were both reported in patients with KRAS-mutated low grade serous ovarian cancer treated in a single-arm trial.


dizziness, dysgeusia, headache, peripheral neuropathy


Dizziness (23%; grade 3 or 4, 1.8%), headache (16%), peripheral neuropathy (14%), and dysgeusia (11%) were reported in patients with KRAS-mutated low grade serous ovarian cancer treated with avutometinib; defactinib in 1 single-arm trial.


bleeding, prolonged bleeding time


Hemorrhage/bleeding was reported in 23% of patients with KRAS-mutated low grade serous ovarian cancer treated with avutometinib; defactinib in a single-arm clinical trial. In addition, prolonged bleeding time was reported in the same population, including increases from baseline in international normalized ratio (INR) and prolonged activated partial thromboplastin time (less than 10% each).


hypertension


Hypertension was reported in 16% (grade 3 or 4, 5.3%) of patients with KARS-mutated low grade serous ovarian cancer treated with avutometinib; defactinib in a single-arm clinical trial; decreases from baseline in ejection fraction were reported in less than 10% of patients in the same population.


thromboembolism


Venous thromboembolism was reported in 14% of patients with KRAS-mutated low grade serous ovarian cancer treated with avutometinib; defactinib in a single-arm clinical trial.


infection, sepsis


Infection has been reported with avutometinib; defactinib treatment in a single-arm clinical trial, including urinary tract infection (25%; grade 3 or 4, 3.5%), paronychia (14%; grade 3 or 4, 1.8%), and upper respiratory tract infection (11%). Serious cases of sepsis (9%) and pyelonephritis (3.6%) were reported in patients from the same population.


hypokalemia


Hypokalemia has been reported in patients treated with avutometinib; defactinib in a single-arm clinical trial, including 23% (grade 3 or 4, 9%) of patients with a decrease from baseline in potassium.


anemia, lymphopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia


Anemia, lymphopenia, thrombocytopenia, and neutropenia have been reported in patients with KRAS-mutated low grade serous ovarian cancer treated with avutometinib; defactinib including decreases from baseline in hemoglobin (65%; grade 3 or 4, 5%), lymphocytes (40%; grade 3 or 4, 1.8%), platelets (35%), and neutrophils (25%; grade 3 or 4, 1.8%).


GI obstruction, GI perforation


Serious cases of intestinal/GI obstruction were reported in 3.6% of patients with KRAS-mutated low grade serious ovarian cancer treated with avutometinib; defactinib. Fatal adverse reactions due to intestinal obstruction (1.8%) and intestinal/GI perforation (1.8%) were also reported in the same population.


hypoalbuminemia


Hypoalbuminemia has been reported in patients with KRAS-mutated low grade serous ovarian cancer receiving avutometinib; defactinib in the RAMP-201 trial, with decreases from baseline in albumin from baseline reported in 70% of patients.


proteinuria


Proteinuria was reported in 22% (grade 3 or 4, 4.4%) of patients with KRAS-mutated low grade serous ovarian cancer treated with avutometinib; defactinib in a single-arm trial; serious cases of hydronephrosis were also reported in 3.6% of patients in the same population.


anorexia, weight loss


Decreased appetite/anorexia (18%; grade 3 or 4, 1.8%) and weight loss (11%) were reported in patients with KRAS-mutated recurrent low grade serous ovarian cancer treated with avutometinib; defactinib in the RAMP-201 trial.


hypertriglyceridemia


Hypertriglyceridemia has been reported in patients treated with avutometinib; defactinib in a single-arm clinical trial, including 46% (grade 3 or 4, 3.5%) of patients with an increase from baseline in triglycerides.


infertility


Based on animal studies, avutometinib; defactinib may cause infertility both in people who can become pregnant and in those who can cause pregnancy; these effects were not reversible in animals.


Description

Avutometinib is a mitogen-activated protein kinase 1 (MEK1) inhibitor. Defactinib is an inhibitor of focal adhesion kinase (FAK) and proline-rich tyrosine kinase-2 (Pyk2). Avutometinib; defactinib is approved for the treatment of adult patients with KRAS-mutated recurrent low-grade serous ovarian cancer (LGSOC) who have received prior systemic therapy. Avutometinib; defactinib can cause ocular toxicities, including visual impairment and vitreoretinal disorders, and serious skin toxicities, including photosensitivity and severe cutaneous adverse reactions (SCARs). Prophylactic medications for skin reactions and comprehensive ophthalmic exams are recommended. Avutometinib; defactinib was FDA approved in May 2025.

Mechanism Of Action


Avutometinib: Avutometinib is a mitogen-activated protein kinase 1 (MEK1) inhibitor that induces the formation of inactive RAF/MEK complexes and prevents phosphorylation of MEK1/2 by RAF. RAF and MEK proteins are regulators of the RAS/RAF/MEK/ERK (MAPK) pathway. Avutometinib inhibited MEK1/2 and ERK1/2 phosphorylation and proliferation of tumor cell lines harboring KRAS mutation. However, treatment of cancer cells with avutometinib increased the level of phosphorylated focal adhesion kinase (FAK), a potential resistance mechanism.
Defactinib: Defactinib inhibits two members of the FAK family of nonreceptor tyrosine kinases: FAK and proline-rich tyrosine kinase-2 (Pyk2). Defactinib inhibited FAK autophosphorylation in cancer cells in vitro and in mouse xenograft models.
Avutometinib in combination with defactinib enhanced inhibition of cell proliferation in vitro and antitumor activity in mouse tumor models including low grade serous ovarian cancer.

Pharmacokinetics


Avutometinib: Avutometinib is administered orally, is highly bound to plasma proteins (99%) in vitro, and has a steady state apparent volume of distribution (Vd) of 25 liters (CV, 19%). Avutometinib is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and nonenzymatic degradation. Its estimated elimination half-life is 51 hours (CV, 28%) and the apparent oral clearance is 0.3 L/hour (CV, 30%). Following a single dose of 2.4 mg radiolabeled avutometinib, 52% (3.2% unchanged) was recovered in the urine and 39% (9.5% unchanged) was recovered in the feces.
Defactinib: Defactinib is administered orally. It is 90% bound to plasma proteins in vitro and has an apparent Vd of 1,560 liters (CV, 59%) at steady state. Defactinib is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CP2C9. It has 2 major metabolites, N-desmethyl sulfonamide (M2) and N-desmethyl amide (M4), representing 92% and 28% of defactinib plasma exposure, respectively; M2 is inactive, whlie M4 is equipotent when compared to defactinib. The estimated elimination half-life of defactinib is 9 hours (CV, 171%) and the apparent oral clearance is 69 L/hour (CV, 173%). Following a single dose of 400 mg radiolabeled defactinib, 7.6% (0.8% unchanged) was recovered in the urine and 87% (52% unchanged) was recovered in the feces.
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A4, CYP2C9, CYP2B6, CYP1A2, UGT1A1, P-gp, BCRP, OATP1B1, OATP1B3, and MATE2-K
Avutometinib: Avutometinib is metabolized in the liver and is a substrate of CYP3A4 in vitro. However, no clinically significant differences in avutometinib pharmacokinetics were observed when used with itraconazole (strong 3A4 inhibitor). When avutometinib was administered with phenytoin (strong 3A4 inducer), its AUC was decreased by 34% with no clinically significant change in Cmax. In vitro, avutometinib is also a substrate of P-gp and BCRP.
Defactinib: Defactinib is metabolized in the liver. In vitro, it is a substrate and reversible, time-dependent inhibitor of CYP3A4 and a substrate and reversible inhibitor of CYP2C9; it may also inhibit UGT1A1 at clinically relevant concentrations. In clinical studies, the defactinib Cmax and AUC were increased by 2.2-fold and 3.9-fold, respectively, following concomitant use with itraconazole (strong 3A4 inhibitor); in addition, the M4 AUC increased by 2.2-fold and M4 Cmax decreased by 6.8%. When defactinib was administered with phenytoin (strong 3A4 inducer), the Cmax and AUC were decreased by 83% and 87%, respectively, while the M4 AUC and Cmax were decreased by 79% and 70%, respectively. In vitro, defactinib is also an inducer of CYP2B6 and CYP1A2 and an inhibitor of P-gp, BCRP, OATP1B1, OAT1B3, and MATE2-K.


Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route


Avutometinib: The median time to avutometinib Tmax under fasted conditions is approximately 2 hours. Avutometinib exhibits dose proportional increases in Cmax and AUC with a single dose ranging from 0.1 mg to 5 mg; no significant accumulation of avutometinib was observed at the recommended dosage. Avutometinib Cmax was decreased by 29% following administration with a high-fat meal (approximately 900 to 1,000 calories; 50% fat); no clinically significant difference in AUC was observed.
Defactinib: The median time to defactinib Tmax under fed conditions is approximately 4 hours. Defactinib exhibits dose proportional increases in AUC and Cmax with twice daily dosing ranging from 12.5 mg to 450 mg; steady-state concentrations are reached in approximately 15 days. Defactinib accumulation is approximately 1.5-fold at the approved recommended dosage. The AUC and Cmax of defactinib were increased 2.7-fold and 1.9-fold, respectively, following administration with a high-fat meal. Defactinib also displays pH-dependent aqueous solubility. Defactinib Cmax and AUC decreased by 85% and 79%, respectively, following concomitant use of multiple doses of omeprazole 40 mg daily; M4 AUC decreased by 83% and Cmax by 88%.


Hepatic Impairment

No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of avutometinib or defactinib were observed based on mild hepatic impairment (total bilirubin more than 1 to 1.5 times the upper limit of normal [ULN] or AST more than ULN). The effect of moderate or severe hepatic impairment (total bilirubin 1.5 times ULN or more or AST/ALT 2.5 times ULN or more) on avutometinib or defactinib pharmacokinetics is unknown.

Renal Impairment

No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of avutometinib or defactinib were observed based on mild to moderate renal impairment (CrCl 30 to 89 mL/min). The effects of severe renal impairment (CrCl less than 30 mL/min) on avutometinib or defactinib pharmacokinetics is unknown.

Geriatric

Age (21 to 87 years) did not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of avutometinib or defactinib.

Gender Differences

Sex did not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of avutometinib or defactinib.

Ethnic Differences

Race (White, Black, Asian) did not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of avutometinib or defactinib.

Obesity

Body weight (40 kg to 169 kg) did not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of avutometinib or defactinib.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
Emetic Risk
Moderate/high
Administer routine antiemetic prophylaxis prior to treatment.
Premedication
Administer a topical corticosteroid (applied to the face, scalp, neck, upper chest, and upper back) and systemic oral antibiotics with initiation of avutometinib; defactinib and during at least the first 2 cycles of treatment.
Patient Counseling
Limit unnecessary exposure to sunlight and apply sunscreen (SPF greater than or equal to 30) daily.


Oral Administration
Oral Solid Formulations

Avutometinib
Take with food.
Swallow capsules whole; do not chew, break, or open the capsules.
If a dose is missed by more than 24 hours, skip the missed dose and take the next dose at the regular time.
If vomiting occurs after a dose, do not take an additional dose and take the next dose at the regular time.
Defactinib
Take with food.
Swallow tablets whole; do not chew, break, or crush the tablets.
If a dose is missed by more than 6 hours, skip the missed dose and take the next dose at the regular time.
If vomiting occurs after a dose, do not take an additional dose and take the next dose at the regular time.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

Avutometinib 3.2 mg PO twice weekly.
Defactinib 200 mg PO twice daily.

Geriatric

Avutometinib 3.2 mg PO twice weekly.
Defactinib 200 mg PO twice daily.

Adolescents

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Children

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

AVMAPKI FAKZYNJA 0.8mg-200mg Co-Pack

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Baseline Hepatic Impairment
Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
Treatment-Related Hepatotoxicity
Hyperbilirubinemia
Grade 2 hyperbilirubinemia (without Gilbert's syndrome) with grade 2 or less ALT/AST increases: Hold both avutometinib and defactinib. When hyperbilirubinemia resolves to grade 1 or less, resume treatment at the same dose.
Grade 2 hyperbilirubinemia with grade 3 or higher ALT/AST increases: Permanently discontinue both avutometinib and defactinib.
Grade 3 hyperbilirubinemia with grade 1 or less ALT/AST increases: Hold both avutometinib and defactinib. For the first occurrence, resume treatment at the same dose when hyperbilirubinemia resolves to grade 1 or less. For recurrent grade 3 hyperbilirubinemia, resume treatment at a reduced dose when hyperbilirubinemia resolves to grade 2 or less, or baseline.
Grade 3 hyperbilirubinemia with grade 2 or higher ALT/AST increases: Permanently discontinue both avutometinib and defactinib.
Grade 4 hyperbilirubinemia with grade 1 or less ALT/AST increases: Hold both avutometinib and defactinib. If resolution occurs within 1 week, resume treatment at a reduced dose. If resolution does not occur within 1 week, permanently discontinue therapy.
Grade 4 hyperbilirubinemia with grade 2 or higher ALT/AST increases: Permanently discontinue both avutometinib and defactinib.
Transaminitis without hyperbilirubinemia
Grade 3 increases in ALT/AST: Hold both avutometinib and defactinib. When ALT/AST resolve to grade 2 or less, or baseline, resume treatment at a reduced dose.
Grade 4 increases in ALT/AST: Permanently discontinue both avutometinib and defactinib.


Renal Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

© 2026 Elsevier