=== Vorasidenib (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5550)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Vorasidenib is an isocitrate dehydrogenase (IDH)-1 and IDH2 inhibitor indicated for patients 12 years and older with Grade 2 astrocytoma or oligodendroglioma with a susceptible IDH1 or IDH2 mutation, following surgery including biopsy, sub-total resection, or gross total resection.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 40 mg PO once daily.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatic failure, hepatitis, hepatotoxicity, hyperbilirubinemia, arthralgia, back pain, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, erythrocytosis, leukopenia, lymphopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, hyperkalemia, hypocalcemia, hypophosphatemia

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure Use vorasidenib with caution in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C), including hepatic failure. The pharmacokinetics and safety of vorasidenib have not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment; closely monitor these...

Brand Names
  - Voranigo

Dosage Forms
  - Voranigo 10mg Tablet
  - Voranigo 40mg Tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Related Indications
      Heading
      for the treatment of grade 2 astrocytoma or oligodendroglioma with a susceptible isocitrate dehydrogenase (IDH)-1 or IDH2 mutation, following surgery including biopsy, sub-total resection, or gross total resection
      Routes
        Heading
        Oral dosage
        Route Age Groups
          Heading
          Adults
          Dosage Description
          40 mg PO once daily until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. Treatment with vorasidenib significantly improved the median progression-free survival compared with placebo (27.7 months vs. 11.1 months) in patients with IDH-1 or IDH-2 mutant grade 2 astrocytoma or oligodendroglioma who had received prior surgery including biopsy as their only prior treatment, and who were considered to be appropriate candidates for a watch-and-wait approach, in a multicenter, randomized, double-blind clinical trial (INDIGO). Fifty-two percent (52%) of patients were diagnosed with oligodendroglioma and 48% with astrocytoma. In the vorasidenib arm, 51% of patients had gross-total resection and 87% had an IDH1 mutation of R132H. The median time to next intervention was also significantly improved in the vorasidenib arm (not reached vs. 17.8 months).
          Heading
          Adolescents and Children 12 years and older weighing 40 kg or more
          Dosage Description
          40 mg PO once daily until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. Treatment in this age group is based on population pharmacokinetics demonstrating that age does not have a clinically meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of vorasidenib; the course of IDH-mutant astrocytoma and oligodendroglioma is sufficiently similar between adults and pediatric patients to allow extrapolation of pharmacokinetic data in adults to pediatric patients. In a multicenter, randomized, double-blind clinical trial (INDIGO), treatment with vorasidenib significantly improved the median progression-free survival compared with placebo (27.7 months vs. 11.1 months) in patients with IDH-1 or IDH-2 mutant grade 2 astrocytoma or oligodendroglioma (age, 16 to 61 years) who had received prior surgery including biopsy as their only prior treatment, and who were considered to be appropriate candidates for a watch-and-wait approach. Fifty-two percent (52%) of patients were diagnosed with oligodendroglioma and 48% with astrocytoma. In the vorasidenib arm, 51% of patients had gross-total resection and 87% had an IDH1 mutation of R132H. The median time to next intervention was also significantly improved in the vorasidenib arm (not reached vs. 17.8 months).
          Heading
          Adolescents and Children 12 years and older weighing less than 40
          Dosage Description
          20 mg PO once daily until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. Treatment in this age group is based on population pharmacokinetics demonstrating that age does not have a clinically meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of vorasidenib; the course of IDH-mutant astrocytoma and oligodendroglioma is sufficiently similar between adults and pediatric patients to allow extrapolation of pharmacokinetic data in adults to pediatric patients. In a multicenter, randomized, double-blind clinical trial (INDIGO), treatment with vorasidenib significantly improved the median progression-free survival compared with placebo (27.7 months vs. 11.1 months) in patients with IDH-1 or IDH-2 mutant grade 2 astrocytoma or oligodendroglioma (age, 16 to 61 years) who had received prior surgery including biopsy as their only prior treatment, and who were considered to be appropriate candidates for a watch-and-wait approach. Fifty-two percent (52%) of patients were diagnosed with oligodendroglioma and 48% with astrocytoma. In the vorasidenib arm, 51% of patients had gross-total resection and 87% had an IDH1 mutation of R132H. The median time to next intervention was also significantly improved in the vorasidenib arm (not reached vs. 17.8 months).
    Routes
    Heading
    For the treatment of astrocytoma or oligodendroglioma

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure
    General Information
    Use vorasidenib with caution in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C), including hepatic failure. The pharmacokinetics and safety of vorasidenib have not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment; closely monitor these patients for increased adverse reactions. Hepatotoxicity has been reported in patients treated with vorasidenib.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    Use vorasidenib with caution in patients with renal impairment, including renal failure. The pharmacokinetics and safety of vorasidenib have not been studied in patients with creatinine clearance of 40 mL/min or less or in patients who require dialysis; closely monitor these patients for increased adverse reactions.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Vorasidenib can cause fetal harm if used during pregnancy, based on its mechanism of action and data from animal studies. In rats and rabbits, administration of vorasidenib during organogenesis resulted in embryo-fetal toxicity (e.g., increased incidence of early and late resorptions, visceral malformations of kidney and testes, heart malformation, and dose-related delayed ossification of bones and short ribs associated with decreased fetal body weights) at exposures 8 times or more than the human exposure based on AUC at the highest recommended dose. Advise pregnant individuals of the potential fetal risk.
    Headline
    people who can cause pregnancy in others, people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel people who may become pregnant and people who can cause pregnancy in others about the reproductive risk associated with vorasidenib. Vorasidenib can cause fetal harm. Verify pregnancy status prior to treatment initiation. Advise people who may become pregnant to use effective non-hormonal contraception while taking vorasidenib and for 3 months after the last dose; vorasidenib can render some hormonal contraceptives ineffective. For those that can cause pregnancy in others, contraception should also be used during vorasidenib treatment and for 3 months after the last dose. Based on animal data, vorasidenib may impair male and female fertility. The effects on fertility were not reversible in rats.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking vorasidenib and for 2 months after the last dose. Vorasidenib has the potential to cause side effects in the breastfed child. There are no data on the presence of vorasidenib or its metabolites in human milk, their effects on the breastfed child, or their effects on milk production.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Vorasidenib can cause fetal harm if used during pregnancy, based on its mechanism of action and data from animal studies. In rats and rabbits, administration of vorasidenib during organogenesis resulted in embryo-fetal toxicity (e.g., increased incidence of early and late resorptions, visceral malformations of kidney and testes, heart malformation, and dose-related delayed ossification of bones and short ribs associated with decreased fetal body weights) at exposures 8 times or more than the human exposure based on AUC at the highest recommended dose. Advise pregnant individuals of the potential fetal risk.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking vorasidenib and for 2 months after the last dose. Vorasidenib has the potential to cause side effects in the breastfed child. There are no data on the presence of vorasidenib or its metabolites in human milk, their effects on the breastfed child, or their effects on milk production.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with vorasidenib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If vorasidenib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); vorasidenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with vorasidenib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with vorasidenib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If vorasidenib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and vorasidenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of oxycodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with vorasidenib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of oxycodone as needed. If vorasidenib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of oxycodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate and vorasidenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease oxycodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Consider an increased dose of alfentanil and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with vorasidenib is necessary. If vorasidenib is discontinued, consider reducing the alfentanil dosage and monitor for evidence of respiratory depression. Coadministration of a weak CYP3A inducer like vorasidenib with alfentanil, a CYP3A substrate, may decrease exposure to alfentanil resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of withdrawal symptoms in a patient who has developed physical dependence to alfentanil. Alfentanil plasma concentrations will increase once the inducer is stopped, which may increase or prolong the therapeutic and adverse effects, including serious respiratory depression.
Amobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorasidenib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease vorasidenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate and barbiturates are moderate CYP1A2 inducers. Concomitant use with a moderate CYP1A2 inducer is predicted to reduce vorasidenib overall exposure by 40%.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorasidenib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease vorasidenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate and barbiturates are moderate CYP1A2 inducers. Concomitant use with a moderate CYP1A2 inducer is predicted to reduce vorasidenib overall exposure by 40%.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with vorasidenib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If vorasidenib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); vorasidenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with vorasidenib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of oxycodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with vorasidenib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of oxycodone as needed. If vorasidenib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of oxycodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate and vorasidenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease oxycodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Atogepant: (Major) Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine and 30 or 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with vorasidenib is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and vorasidenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a weak CYP3A inducer resulted in a 25% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 24% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Avanafil: (Major) Coadministration of avanafil with vorasidenib is not recommended by the manufacturer of avanafil due to the potential for decreased avanafil efficacy. Avanafil is a CYP3A substrate and vorasidenib is a CYP3A inducer. Although the potential effect of CYP inducers on the pharmacokinetics of avanafil has not been evaluated, plasma concentrations may decrease.
Barbiturates: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorasidenib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease vorasidenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate and barbiturates are moderate CYP1A2 inducers. Concomitant use with a moderate CYP1A2 inducer is predicted to reduce vorasidenib overall exposure by 40%.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of benzhydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with vorasidenib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of benzhydrocodone as needed. If vorasidenib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of benzhydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Benzhydrocodone is a prodrug for hydrocodone. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and vorasidenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Buprenorphine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of buprenorphine, and potentially the onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to buprenorphine, if coadministration with vorasidenib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. If vorasidenib is discontinued, consider a buprenorphine dose reduction and monitor for signs of respiratory depression. Buprenorphine is a CYP3A substrate and vorasidenib is a CYP3A inducer.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of buprenorphine, and potentially the onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to buprenorphine, if coadministration with vorasidenib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. If vorasidenib is discontinued, consider a buprenorphine dose reduction and monitor for signs of respiratory depression. Buprenorphine is a CYP3A substrate and vorasidenib is a CYP3A inducer.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorasidenib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease vorasidenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate and barbiturates are moderate CYP1A2 inducers. Concomitant use with a moderate CYP1A2 inducer is predicted to reduce vorasidenib overall exposure by 40%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorasidenib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease vorasidenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate and barbiturates are moderate CYP1A2 inducers. Concomitant use with a moderate CYP1A2 inducer is predicted to reduce vorasidenib overall exposure by 40%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorasidenib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease vorasidenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate and barbiturates are moderate CYP1A2 inducers. Concomitant use with a moderate CYP1A2 inducer is predicted to reduce vorasidenib overall exposure by 40%. (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with vorasidenib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If vorasidenib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); vorasidenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with vorasidenib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorasidenib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease vorasidenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate and barbiturates are moderate CYP1A2 inducers. Concomitant use with a moderate CYP1A2 inducer is predicted to reduce vorasidenib overall exposure by 40%. (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with vorasidenib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If vorasidenib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); vorasidenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with vorasidenib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Capmatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorasidenib and capmatinib due to the risk for increased vorasidenib exposure which may increase the risk for vorasidenib-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for an increase in vorasidenib-related adverse effects and adjust the vorasidenib dosage as appropriate based on response. Vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate and capmatinib is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor increased vorasidenib overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorasidenib and carbamazepine. Concurrent use may decrease vorasidenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Carbamazepine concentrations may also be decreased. Vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate and weak CYP3A inducer and carbamazepine is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP1A2 inducer. Concomitant use with a moderate CYP1A2 inducer is predicted to reduce vorasidenib overall exposure by 40%.
Cariprazine: (Major) Coadministration of cariprazine with vorasidenib is not recommended as the net effect of CYP3A induction on cariprazine and its metabolites is unclear. Cariprazine is a CYP3A substrate and vorasidenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of cariprazine with CYP3A inducers has not been evaluated.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of tramadol and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with vorasidenib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of tramadol as needed. If vorasidenib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of tramadol and frequently monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Tramadol is a CYP3A substrate and vorasidenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease tramadol levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with vorasidenib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If vorasidenib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); vorasidenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with vorasidenib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with vorasidenib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If vorasidenib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and vorasidenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Ciprofloxacin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorasidenib and ciprofloxacin due to the risk for increased vorasidenib exposure which may increase the risk for vorasidenib-related adverse effects. Vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate and ciprofloxacin is a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use is predicted to increase vorasidenib overall exposure by over 5-fold.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of clozapine effectiveness if coadministered with vorasidenib. Consideration should be given to increasing the clozapine dose if necessary. When vorasidenib is discontinued, reduce the clozapine dose based on clinical response. Clozapine is a CYP3A substrate and vorasidenib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with vorasidenib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If vorasidenib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); vorasidenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with vorasidenib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with vorasidenib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If vorasidenib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); vorasidenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with vorasidenib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with vorasidenib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If vorasidenib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); vorasidenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with vorasidenib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with vorasidenib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If vorasidenib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); vorasidenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with vorasidenib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with vorasidenib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If vorasidenib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); vorasidenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with vorasidenib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with vorasidenib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If vorasidenib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); vorasidenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with vorasidenib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Conjugated Estrogens: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of vorasidenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on vorasidenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical response. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and vorasidenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Conjugated Estrogens; Bazedoxifene: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of vorasidenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on vorasidenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical response. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and vorasidenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Conjugated Estrogens; medroxyPROGESTERone: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of vorasidenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on vorasidenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical response. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and vorasidenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of vorasidenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on vorasidenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and vorasidenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Closely monitor cyclosporine concentrations and adjust the dose of cyclosporine as appropriate if coadministration with vorasidenib is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease cyclosporine exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Cyclosporine is extensively metabolized by CYP3A and has a narrow therapeutic index; vorasidenib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Deferasirox: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorasidenib and deferasirox due to the risk for increased vorasidenib exposure which may increase the risk for vorasidenib-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for an increase in vorasidenib-related adverse effects and adjust the vorasidenib dosage as appropriate based on response. Vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate and deferasirox is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor increased vorasidenib overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of vorasidenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on vorasidenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and vorasidenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorasidenib and ethinyl estradiol due to the potential for increased vorasidenib exposure and reduced ethinyl estradiol efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for vorasidenib-related adverse effects and adjust the vorasidenib dose as needed. Additionally, advise patients using estrogen-containing contraceptives to consider nonhormonal and/or barrier methods during treatment and for at least 1 month after discontinuation. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Monitor patients using estrogens for other indications for reduced clinical efficacy, with dose adjustments as appropriate. Vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate and CYP3A inducer, while ethinyl estradiol is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor increased vorasidenib overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of vorasidenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on vorasidenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and vorasidenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorasidenib and ethinyl estradiol due to the potential for increased vorasidenib exposure and reduced ethinyl estradiol efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for vorasidenib-related adverse effects and adjust the vorasidenib dose as needed. Additionally, advise patients using estrogen-containing contraceptives to consider nonhormonal and/or barrier methods during treatment and for at least 1 month after discontinuation. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Monitor patients using estrogens for other indications for reduced clinical efficacy, with dose adjustments as appropriate. Vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate and CYP3A inducer, while ethinyl estradiol is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor increased vorasidenib overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Monitor patients for decreased efficacy of diazepam if coadministration with vorasidenib is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease diazepam exposure. Diazepam is a CYP3A substrate and vorasidenib is a CYP3A inducer.
Dienogest; Estradiol valerate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of vorasidenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on vorasidenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical response. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and vorasidenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of vorasidenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on vorasidenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and vorasidenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Doravirine: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and vorasidenib may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; vorasidenib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Doravirine; Islatravir: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and vorasidenib may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; vorasidenib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and vorasidenib may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; vorasidenib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Drospirenone: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of vorasidenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on vorasidenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and vorasidenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Drospirenone; Estetrol: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of vorasidenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on vorasidenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and vorasidenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Drospirenone; Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of vorasidenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on vorasidenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical response. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and vorasidenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of vorasidenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on vorasidenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and vorasidenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of vorasidenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on vorasidenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and vorasidenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorasidenib and ethinyl estradiol due to the potential for increased vorasidenib exposure and reduced ethinyl estradiol efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for vorasidenib-related adverse effects and adjust the vorasidenib dose as needed. Additionally, advise patients using estrogen-containing contraceptives to consider nonhormonal and/or barrier methods during treatment and for at least 1 month after discontinuation. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Monitor patients using estrogens for other indications for reduced clinical efficacy, with dose adjustments as appropriate. Vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate and CYP3A inducer, while ethinyl estradiol is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor increased vorasidenib overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of vorasidenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on vorasidenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and vorasidenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorasidenib and ethinyl estradiol due to the potential for increased vorasidenib exposure and reduced ethinyl estradiol efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for vorasidenib-related adverse effects and adjust the vorasidenib dose as needed. Additionally, advise patients using estrogen-containing contraceptives to consider nonhormonal and/or barrier methods during treatment and for at least 1 month after discontinuation. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Monitor patients using estrogens for other indications for reduced clinical efficacy, with dose adjustments as appropriate. Vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate and CYP3A inducer, while ethinyl estradiol is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor increased vorasidenib overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of vorasidenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on vorasidenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical response. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and vorasidenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of vorasidenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on vorasidenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and vorasidenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Enasidenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorasidenib and enasidenib due to the risk for increased vorasidenib exposure which may increase the risk for vorasidenib-related adverse effects. Vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate and enasidenib is a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use with a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor is predicted to increase vorasidenib overall exposure by over 5-fold.
Esterified Estrogens: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of vorasidenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on vorasidenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical response. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and vorasidenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Esterified Estrogens; methylTESTOSTERone: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of vorasidenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on vorasidenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical response. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and vorasidenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of vorasidenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on vorasidenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical response. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and vorasidenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Estradiol; Levonorgestrel: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of vorasidenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on vorasidenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical response. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and vorasidenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of vorasidenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on vorasidenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and vorasidenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Estradiol; Norethindrone: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of vorasidenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on vorasidenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical response. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and vorasidenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of vorasidenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on vorasidenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and vorasidenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Estradiol; Norgestimate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of vorasidenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on vorasidenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical response. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and vorasidenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of vorasidenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on vorasidenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and vorasidenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Estradiol; Progesterone: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of vorasidenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on vorasidenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical response. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and vorasidenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of vorasidenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on vorasidenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and vorasidenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Estrogens (selected): (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of vorasidenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on vorasidenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical response. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and vorasidenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of vorasidenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on vorasidenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and vorasidenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorasidenib and ethinyl estradiol due to the potential for increased vorasidenib exposure and reduced ethinyl estradiol efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for vorasidenib-related adverse effects and adjust the vorasidenib dose as needed. Additionally, advise patients using estrogen-containing contraceptives to consider nonhormonal and/or barrier methods during treatment and for at least 1 month after discontinuation. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Monitor patients using estrogens for other indications for reduced clinical efficacy, with dose adjustments as appropriate. Vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate and CYP3A inducer, while ethinyl estradiol is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor increased vorasidenib overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of vorasidenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on vorasidenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and vorasidenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorasidenib and ethinyl estradiol due to the potential for increased vorasidenib exposure and reduced ethinyl estradiol efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for vorasidenib-related adverse effects and adjust the vorasidenib dose as needed. Additionally, advise patients using estrogen-containing contraceptives to consider nonhormonal and/or barrier methods during treatment and for at least 1 month after discontinuation. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Monitor patients using estrogens for other indications for reduced clinical efficacy, with dose adjustments as appropriate. Vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate and CYP3A inducer, while ethinyl estradiol is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor increased vorasidenib overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of vorasidenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on vorasidenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and vorasidenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorasidenib and ethinyl estradiol due to the potential for increased vorasidenib exposure and reduced ethinyl estradiol efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for vorasidenib-related adverse effects and adjust the vorasidenib dose as needed. Additionally, advise patients using estrogen-containing contraceptives to consider nonhormonal and/or barrier methods during treatment and for at least 1 month after discontinuation. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Monitor patients using estrogens for other indications for reduced clinical efficacy, with dose adjustments as appropriate. Vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate and CYP3A inducer, while ethinyl estradiol is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor increased vorasidenib overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of vorasidenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on vorasidenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and vorasidenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorasidenib and ethinyl estradiol due to the potential for increased vorasidenib exposure and reduced ethinyl estradiol efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for vorasidenib-related adverse effects and adjust the vorasidenib dose as needed. Additionally, advise patients using estrogen-containing contraceptives to consider nonhormonal and/or barrier methods during treatment and for at least 1 month after discontinuation. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Monitor patients using estrogens for other indications for reduced clinical efficacy, with dose adjustments as appropriate. Vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate and CYP3A inducer, while ethinyl estradiol is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor increased vorasidenib overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
Etonogestrel: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of vorasidenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on vorasidenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and vorasidenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of vorasidenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on vorasidenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and vorasidenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorasidenib and ethinyl estradiol due to the potential for increased vorasidenib exposure and reduced ethinyl estradiol efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for vorasidenib-related adverse effects and adjust the vorasidenib dose as needed. Additionally, advise patients using estrogen-containing contraceptives to consider nonhormonal and/or barrier methods during treatment and for at least 1 month after discontinuation. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Monitor patients using estrogens for other indications for reduced clinical efficacy, with dose adjustments as appropriate. Vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate and CYP3A inducer, while ethinyl estradiol is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor increased vorasidenib overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Consider an increased dose of fentanyl and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal if concurrent use of vorasidenib is necessary. If vorasidenib is discontinued, consider reducing the fentanyl dosage and monitor for evidence of respiratory depression. Coadministration of a CYP3A inducer like vorasidenib with fentanyl, a CYP3A substrate, may decrease exposure to fentanyl resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of withdrawal symptoms in a patient who has developed physical dependence to fentanyl. Fentanyl plasma concentrations will increase once the inducer is stopped, which may increase or prolong the therapeutic and adverse effects, including serious respiratory depression.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorasidenib and fexinidazole due to the risk for increased vorasidenib exposure which may increase the risk for vorasidenib-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for an increase in vorasidenib-related adverse effects and adjust the vorasidenib dosage as appropriate based on response. Vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor increased vorasidenib overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
fluvoxaMINE: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorasidenib and fluvoxamine due to the risk for increased vorasidenib exposure which may increase the risk for vorasidenib-related adverse effects. Vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate and fluvoxamine is a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use is predicted to increase vorasidenib overall exposure by over 5-fold.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorasidenib and phenytoin/fosphenytoin. Concurrent use may decrease vorasidenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate and phenytoin/fosphenytoin is a moderate CYP1A2 inducer. Concomitant use is predicted to reduce vorasidenib overall exposure by 40%.
Givosiran: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorasidenib and givosiran due to the risk for increased vorasidenib exposure which may increase the risk for vorasidenib-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for an increase in vorasidenib-related adverse effects and adjust the vorasidenib dosage as appropriate based on response. Vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate and givosiran is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor increased vorasidenib overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with vorasidenib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If vorasidenib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and vorasidenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with vorasidenib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If vorasidenib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and vorasidenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with vorasidenib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If vorasidenib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and vorasidenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Isradipine: (Minor) Monitor for decreased efficacy of isradipine if coadministration with vorasidenib is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease isradipine exposure. Isradipine is a CYP3A substrate and vorasidenib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Levonorgestrel: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of vorasidenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on vorasidenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and vorasidenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of vorasidenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on vorasidenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and vorasidenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorasidenib and ethinyl estradiol due to the potential for increased vorasidenib exposure and reduced ethinyl estradiol efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for vorasidenib-related adverse effects and adjust the vorasidenib dose as needed. Additionally, advise patients using estrogen-containing contraceptives to consider nonhormonal and/or barrier methods during treatment and for at least 1 month after discontinuation. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Monitor patients using estrogens for other indications for reduced clinical efficacy, with dose adjustments as appropriate. Vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate and CYP3A inducer, while ethinyl estradiol is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor increased vorasidenib overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of vorasidenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on vorasidenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and vorasidenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorasidenib and ethinyl estradiol due to the potential for increased vorasidenib exposure and reduced ethinyl estradiol efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for vorasidenib-related adverse effects and adjust the vorasidenib dose as needed. Additionally, advise patients using estrogen-containing contraceptives to consider nonhormonal and/or barrier methods during treatment and for at least 1 month after discontinuation. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Monitor patients using estrogens for other indications for reduced clinical efficacy, with dose adjustments as appropriate. Vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate and CYP3A inducer, while ethinyl estradiol is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor increased vorasidenib overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of vorasidenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on vorasidenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and vorasidenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorasidenib and ethinyl estradiol due to the potential for increased vorasidenib exposure and reduced ethinyl estradiol efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for vorasidenib-related adverse effects and adjust the vorasidenib dose as needed. Additionally, advise patients using estrogen-containing contraceptives to consider nonhormonal and/or barrier methods during treatment and for at least 1 month after discontinuation. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Monitor patients using estrogens for other indications for reduced clinical efficacy, with dose adjustments as appropriate. Vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate and CYP3A inducer, while ethinyl estradiol is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor increased vorasidenib overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorasidenib and ritonavir. Concurrent use may decrease vorasidenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. The plasma concentrations of ritonavir may also be decreased leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate and weak CYP3A inducer and ritonavir is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP1A2 inducer. Concomitant use with a moderate CYP1A2 inducer is predicted to reduce vorasidenib overall exposure by 40%.
Lumateperone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lumateperone and vorasidenib as concurrent use may decrease lumateperone exposure which may reduce efficacy. Lumateperone is a CYP3A substrate; vorasidenib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
medroxyPROGESTERone: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of vorasidenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on vorasidenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and vorasidenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Mefloquine: (Moderate) Use mefloquine with caution if coadministration with vorasidenib is necessary as concurrent use may decrease mefloquine exposure and efficacy. Mefloquine is a CYP3A substrate and vorasidenib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of meperidine and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with vorasidenib is necessary. Consider increasing the dose of meperidine as needed. If vorasidenib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of meperidine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Meperidine is a substrate of CYP3A; vorasidenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use can decrease meperidine exposure resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Methadone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of methadone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with vorasidenib is necessary. Consider increasing the dose of methadone as needed. If vorasidenib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of methadone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Methadone is a substrate of CYP3A, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, and CYP2D6; vorasidenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use can decrease methadone exposure resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Methohexital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorasidenib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease vorasidenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate and barbiturates are moderate CYP1A2 inducers. Concomitant use with a moderate CYP1A2 inducer is predicted to reduce vorasidenib overall exposure by 40%.
Methoxsalen: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorasidenib and methoxsalen due to the risk for increased vorasidenib exposure which may increase the risk for vorasidenib-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for an increase in vorasidenib-related adverse effects and adjust the vorasidenib dosage as appropriate based on response. Vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate and methoxsalen is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor increased vorasidenib overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
Methylergonovine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and vorasidenib. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and vorasidenib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Mexiletine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorasidenib and mexiletine due to the risk for increased vorasidenib exposure which may increase the risk for vorasidenib-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for an increase in vorasidenib-related adverse effects and adjust the vorasidenib dosage as appropriate based on response. Vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate and mexiletine is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor increased vorasidenib overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound PACLitaxel: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of nab-paclitaxel if coadministration with vorasidenib is necessary due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of paclitaxel. Nab-paclitaxel is a CYP3A substrate and vorasidenib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound Sirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced sirolimus efficacy if sirolimus is coadministered with vorasidenib. Concomitant use may decrease sirolimus exposure. Sirolimus is a CYP3A substrate and vorasidenib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
niMODipine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of nimodipine if coadministration with vorasidenib is necessary as concomitant use may decrease plasma concentrations of nimodipine. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and vorasidenib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorasidenib and ritonavir. Concurrent use may decrease vorasidenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. The plasma concentrations of ritonavir may also be decreased leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate and weak CYP3A inducer and ritonavir is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP1A2 inducer. Concomitant use with a moderate CYP1A2 inducer is predicted to reduce vorasidenib overall exposure by 40%. (Moderate) Monitor for a diminished response to nirmatrelvir if concomitant use of vorasidenib is necessary. Concomitant use of nirmatrelvir and vorasidenib may reduce the therapeutic effect of nirmatrelvir. Nirmatrelvir is a CYP3A substrate and vorasidenib is a CYP3A inducer.
Nisoldipine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nisoldipine with vorasidenib as concurrent use may decrease nisoldipine exposure and efficacy. Alternative antihypertensive therapy should be considered. Nisoldipine is a CYP3A substrate and vorasidenib is a CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inducer lowered nisoldipine plasma concentrations to undetectable levels.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of vorasidenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on vorasidenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and vorasidenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorasidenib and ethinyl estradiol due to the potential for increased vorasidenib exposure and reduced ethinyl estradiol efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for vorasidenib-related adverse effects and adjust the vorasidenib dose as needed. Additionally, advise patients using estrogen-containing contraceptives to consider nonhormonal and/or barrier methods during treatment and for at least 1 month after discontinuation. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Monitor patients using estrogens for other indications for reduced clinical efficacy, with dose adjustments as appropriate. Vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate and CYP3A inducer, while ethinyl estradiol is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor increased vorasidenib overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
Norethindrone: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of vorasidenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on vorasidenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and vorasidenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of vorasidenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on vorasidenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and vorasidenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorasidenib and ethinyl estradiol due to the potential for increased vorasidenib exposure and reduced ethinyl estradiol efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for vorasidenib-related adverse effects and adjust the vorasidenib dose as needed. Additionally, advise patients using estrogen-containing contraceptives to consider nonhormonal and/or barrier methods during treatment and for at least 1 month after discontinuation. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Monitor patients using estrogens for other indications for reduced clinical efficacy, with dose adjustments as appropriate. Vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate and CYP3A inducer, while ethinyl estradiol is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor increased vorasidenib overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of vorasidenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on vorasidenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and vorasidenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorasidenib and ethinyl estradiol due to the potential for increased vorasidenib exposure and reduced ethinyl estradiol efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for vorasidenib-related adverse effects and adjust the vorasidenib dose as needed. Additionally, advise patients using estrogen-containing contraceptives to consider nonhormonal and/or barrier methods during treatment and for at least 1 month after discontinuation. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Monitor patients using estrogens for other indications for reduced clinical efficacy, with dose adjustments as appropriate. Vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate and CYP3A inducer, while ethinyl estradiol is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor increased vorasidenib overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of vorasidenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on vorasidenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and vorasidenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorasidenib and ethinyl estradiol due to the potential for increased vorasidenib exposure and reduced ethinyl estradiol efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for vorasidenib-related adverse effects and adjust the vorasidenib dose as needed. Additionally, advise patients using estrogen-containing contraceptives to consider nonhormonal and/or barrier methods during treatment and for at least 1 month after discontinuation. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Monitor patients using estrogens for other indications for reduced clinical efficacy, with dose adjustments as appropriate. Vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate and CYP3A inducer, while ethinyl estradiol is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor increased vorasidenib overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
Norgestrel: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of vorasidenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on vorasidenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and vorasidenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Osilodrostat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorasidenib and osilodrostat due to the risk for increased vorasidenib exposure which may increase the risk for vorasidenib-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for an increase in vorasidenib-related adverse effects and adjust the vorasidenib dosage as appropriate based on response. Vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate and osilodrostat is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor increased vorasidenib overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of oxycodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with vorasidenib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of oxycodone as needed. If vorasidenib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of oxycodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate and vorasidenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease oxycodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
PACLitaxel: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of paclitaxel if coadministration with vorasidenib is necessary due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of paclitaxel. Paclitaxel is a CYP3A substrate and vorasidenib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
PENTobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorasidenib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease vorasidenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate and barbiturates are moderate CYP1A2 inducers. Concomitant use with a moderate CYP1A2 inducer is predicted to reduce vorasidenib overall exposure by 40%.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorasidenib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease vorasidenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate and barbiturates are moderate CYP1A2 inducers. Concomitant use with a moderate CYP1A2 inducer is predicted to reduce vorasidenib overall exposure by 40%.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorasidenib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease vorasidenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate and barbiturates are moderate CYP1A2 inducers. Concomitant use with a moderate CYP1A2 inducer is predicted to reduce vorasidenib overall exposure by 40%.
Phenytoin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorasidenib and phenytoin/fosphenytoin. Concurrent use may decrease vorasidenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate and phenytoin/fosphenytoin is a moderate CYP1A2 inducer. Concomitant use is predicted to reduce vorasidenib overall exposure by 40%.
Primidone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorasidenib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease vorasidenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate and barbiturates are moderate CYP1A2 inducers. Concomitant use with a moderate CYP1A2 inducer is predicted to reduce vorasidenib overall exposure by 40%.
Progesterone: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of vorasidenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on vorasidenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and vorasidenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Progestins: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of vorasidenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on vorasidenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and vorasidenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
quiNINE: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorasidenib and quinine. Concurrent use may decrease vorasidenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate and quinine is a moderate CYP1A2 inducer. Concomitant use with a moderate CYP1A2 inducer is predicted to reduce vorasidenib overall exposure by 40%.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of vorasidenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on vorasidenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical response. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and vorasidenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of vorasidenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on vorasidenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and vorasidenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorasidenib and rifampin. Concurrent use may decrease vorasidenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate and rifampin is a moderate CYP1A2 inducer. Concomitant use is predicted to reduce vorasidenib overall exposure by 40%.
Ritlecitinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorasidenib and ritlecitinib due to the risk for increased vorasidenib exposure which may increase the risk for vorasidenib-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for an increase in vorasidenib-related adverse effects and adjust the vorasidenib dosage as appropriate based on response. Vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor increased vorasidenib overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorasidenib and ritonavir. Concurrent use may decrease vorasidenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. The plasma concentrations of ritonavir may also be decreased leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate and weak CYP3A inducer and ritonavir is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP1A2 inducer. Concomitant use with a moderate CYP1A2 inducer is predicted to reduce vorasidenib overall exposure by 40%.
Rucaparib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorasidenib and rucaparib due to the risk for increased vorasidenib exposure which may increase the risk for vorasidenib-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for an increase in vorasidenib-related adverse effects and adjust the vorasidenib dosage as appropriate based on response. Vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate and rucaparib is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor increased vorasidenib overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
Secobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorasidenib and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease vorasidenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate and barbiturates are moderate CYP1A2 inducers. Concomitant use with a moderate CYP1A2 inducer is predicted to reduce vorasidenib overall exposure by 40%.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of vorasidenib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on vorasidenib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and vorasidenib is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorasidenib and ethinyl estradiol due to the potential for increased vorasidenib exposure and reduced ethinyl estradiol efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for vorasidenib-related adverse effects and adjust the vorasidenib dose as needed. Additionally, advise patients using estrogen-containing contraceptives to consider nonhormonal and/or barrier methods during treatment and for at least 1 month after discontinuation. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Monitor patients using estrogens for other indications for reduced clinical efficacy, with dose adjustments as appropriate. Vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate and CYP3A inducer, while ethinyl estradiol is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor increased vorasidenib overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
Sildenafil: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of sildenafil if coadministration with vorasidenib is necessary as concurrent use may decrease sildenafil exposure. Sildenafil is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and vorasidenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Population pharmacokinetic analysis indicates an approximately 3-fold increase in sildenafil clearance with concomitant use of weak CYP3A inducers.
Sirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor sirolimus concentrations and adjust sirolimus dosage as appropriate during concomitant use of vorasidenib. Concomitant use may decrease sirolimus exposure and efficacy. Sirolimus is a CYP3A substrate and vorasidenib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorasidenib and St. John's wort. Concurrent use may decrease vorasidenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate and St. John's wort is a moderate CYP1A2 inducer. Concomitant use with a moderate CYP1A2 inducer is predicted to reduce vorasidenib overall exposure by 40%.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Because the dose of the sufentanil sublingual tablets cannot be titrated, consider an alternate opiate if vorasidenib must be administered. Monitor for reduced efficacy of sufentanil injection and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with vorasidenib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of sufentanil injection as needed. If vorasidenib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of sufentanil injection and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Sufentanil is a CYP3A substrate and vorasidenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease sufentanil concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Tacrolimus: (Moderate) Monitor tacrolimus serum concentrations as appropriate if coadministration with vorasidenib is necessary; a tacrolimus dose adjustment may be needed. Concurrent administration may decrease tacrolimus concentrations. Tacrolimus is a sensitive CYP3A substrate with a narrow therapeutic range; vorasidenib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Tobacco: (Major) Advise patients to avoid smoking tobacco while taking vorasidenib. Smoking tobacco may reduce vorasidenib overall exposure and efficacy. Smoking tobacco induces CYP1A2 and vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate.
traMADol: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of tramadol and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with vorasidenib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of tramadol as needed. If vorasidenib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of tramadol and frequently monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Tramadol is a CYP3A substrate and vorasidenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease tramadol levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of tramadol and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with vorasidenib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of tramadol as needed. If vorasidenib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of tramadol and frequently monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Tramadol is a CYP3A substrate and vorasidenib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease tramadol levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Ubrogepant: (Major) Increase the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 100 mg if coadministered with vorasidenib as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce its efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A substrate; vorasidenib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Ulipristal: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ulipristal with vorasidenib. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A and vorasidenib is a CYP3A inducer.
Vemurafenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorasidenib and vemurafenib due to the risk for increased vorasidenib exposure which may increase the risk for vorasidenib-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for an increase in vorasidenib-related adverse effects and adjust the vorasidenib dosage as appropriate based on response. Vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate and vemurafenib is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor increased vorasidenib overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
Viloxazine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorasidenib and viloxazine due to the risk for increased vorasidenib exposure which may increase the risk for vorasidenib-related adverse effects. Vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate and viloxazine is a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use with a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor is predicted to increase vorasidenib overall exposure by over 5-fold.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Closely monitor the INR if coadministration of warfarin with vorasidenib is necessary as concurrent use may decrease the exposure of warfarin leading to reduced efficacy. The R-enantiomer of warfarin is a CYP3A substrate and vorasidenib is a CYP3A inducer. The S-enantiomer of warfarin exhibits 2 to 5 times more anticoagulant activity than the R-enantiomer, but the R-enantiomer generally has a slower clearance.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatic failure, hepatitis, hepatotoxicity, hyperbilirubinemia
    General Information
    Hepatotoxicity has occurred in patients treated with vorasidenib which can lead to hepatic failure, hepatic necrosis, and autoimmune hepatitis. Elevated hepatic enzymes including increased ALT (58%; grade 3 or 4, 9%), increased AST (44%; grade 3 or 4, 4.8%), and increased GGT (34%; grade 3 or 4, 2.2%) were reported in patients who received vorasidenib in a pooled safety population (n = 244); of these patients, 4.1% had concurrent grade 3 or 4 ALT or AST elevations. The median time to first onset of transaminitis was 57 days. An increase in bilirubin (hyperbilirubinemia) occurred in 4.8% of vorasidenib-treated patients in the pooled safety population (grade 3 or 4, 0.4%) and increased alkaline phosphatase occurred in 9% of patients (grade 3 or 4, 0.9%). Two patients met laboratory criteria for Hy's Law and had concurrent ALT/AST more than 3 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) with total bilirubin greater than 2 times ULN; these cases were associated with autoimmune hepatitis and hepatic failure. Acute hepatitis has been reported in the postmarketing setting. Monitor liver function tests including AST, ALT, GGT, total bilirubin, and alkaline phosphatase at baseline, every 2 weeks for the first 2 months of treatment, then monthly for the first 2 years of treatment, then as clinically indicated; monitor more often in patients who develop transaminitis. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary based on the severity of hepatotoxicity.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hepatotoxicity
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hyperbilirubinemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hepatic failure
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hepatitis
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    asthenia, fatigue
    General Information
    Fatigue including asthenia was reported in 37% of patients who received vorasidenib compared with 36% of those who received placebo in a randomized clinical trial (grade 3 or 4, 0.6% vs. 1.2%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    seizures
    General Information
    Seizures were reported in 16% of patients who received vorasidenib compared with 15% of those who received placebo in a randomized clinical trial (grade 3 or 4, 4.2% vs. 3.7%). "Seizures" was a grouped term that included partial seizures, generalized tonic-clonic seizures, epilepsy, clonic convulsion, and simple partial seizures.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      seizures
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    arthralgia, back pain, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia
    General Information
    Musculoskeletal pain was reported in 26% of patients who received vorasidenib compared with 25% of those who received placebo in a randomized clinical trial (grade 3 or 4, 0% vs. 1.8%). "Musculoskeletal pain" was a grouped term that included arthralgia, back pain, noncardiac chest pain, extremity pain, myalgia, neck pain, arthritis, and musculoskeletal stiffness.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      back pain
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      musculoskeletal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      myalgia
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    infection
    General Information
    COVID-19 infection was reported in 33% of patients who received vorasidenib compared with 19% of those who received placebo in a randomized clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    abdominal pain, anorexia, constipation, diarrhea
    General Information
    Diarrhea (25% vs. 17%; grade 3 or 4, 0.6% vs. 0.6%), constipation (13% vs. 12%), abdominal pain (13% vs. 12%), and decreased appetite/anorexia (9% vs. 3.7%) were reported more often in patients who received vorasidenib compared with those who received placebo in a randomized clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    erythrocytosis, leukopenia, lymphopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia
    General Information
    Hematologic abnormalities including erythrocytosis, lymphopenia, leukopenia, neutropenia, and thrombocytopenia have been reported in patients treated with vorasidenib in clinical trials. In one randomized clinical trial of patients with previously untreated grade 2 astrocytoma or oligodendroglioma, a decreased from baseline in lymphocytes (11% vs. 8%; grade 3 or 4, 1.8% vs. 0.6%), leukocytes (13% vs. 12%; grade 3 or 4, 0.6% vs. 0.6%), neutrophils (14% vs. 12%; grade 3 or 4, 2.4% vs. 1.8%), and platelets (12% vs. 4.3%) were reported more often in patients who received vorasidenib compared with those who received placebo; an increase from baseline in hemoglobin was reported in 13% versus 3.1% of patients, respectively.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      erythrocytosis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      leukopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      lymphopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      neutropenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
    Headline
    hyperglycemia
    General Information
    Hyperglycemia has been reported in patients treated with vorasidenib in a randomized clinical trial, with an increase from baseline in glucose occurring in 10% of patients who received vorasidenib compared with 4.3% of those who received placebo.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperglycemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hyperkalemia, hypocalcemia, hypophosphatemia
    General Information
    Electrolyte abnormalities including hypocalcemia, hypophosphatemia, and hyperkalemia occurred in patients treated with vorasidenib in a randomized clinical trial, with a decrease from baseline in calcium (10% vs. 7%) and phosphate (8% vs. 4.9%; grade 3 or 4, 0.6% vs. 0%) as well as an increase from baseline in potassium (23% vs. 20%; grade 3 or 4, 0.6% vs. 0%) occurring more often in patients who received vorasidenib compared with those who received placebo. Increased creatinine was also reported in 11% of patients in the vorasidenib arm compared with 7% of those in the placebo arm (grade 3 or 4, 0.6% vs 0%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperkalemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypocalcemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypophosphatemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    infertility
    General Information
    Based on animal studies, vorasidenib may cause female and male infertility. It is not known if infertility is reversible.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infertility
      Severity
      Moderate

Description
  Text
  Vorasidenib is an isocitrate dehydrogenase (IDH)-1 and IDH2 inhibitor indicated for patients 12 years and older with Grade 2 astrocytoma or oligodendroglioma with a susceptible IDH1 or IDH2 mutation, following surgery including biopsy, sub-total resection, or gross total resection. Vorasidenib was approved by the FDA in August 2024. Treatment is generally well-tolerated but carries a risk of hepatotoxicity; monitor liver function tests at baseline and periodically during treatment.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Vorasidenib is a small molecule inhibitor that targets isocitrate dehydrogenase (IDH)-1 and IDH2 enzymes, decreasing 2- hydroxyglutarate (2-HG) tumor concentrations in patients with IDH1 or IDH2 mutated glioma. In vitro, vorasidenib inhibited both IDH1 and IDH2 wild-type and mutant variants, including R132H. In cell-based and in vivo tumor models expressing IDH1 or IDH2 mutated proteins, vorasidenib decreased production of 2-HG and partially restored cellular differentiation.
 
IDH1 and IDH2 are beta-decarboxylating dehydrogenases which reversibly convert isocitrate to alpha-ketoglutarate (alpha-KG), which regulates metabolic and catalytic processes in the Krebs cycle. Among other things, mutations in IDH1 and IDH2 cause alpha-KG to synthesize 2-HG, competitively inhibiting the demethylation and hydrolysis of alpha-KG/ Fe(II)-dependent dioxygenases (alpha-KGDDs); alpha-KGDDs mediate epigenetic alteration and active oncogenic pathways including HIF and mTOR. According to recent studies, 2-HG affects histone methylation, hypoxia signaling, DNA repair, and redox homeostasis.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    At the highest approved recommended dose, the mean Cmax of vorasidenib at steady-state is 133 ng/mL (CV, 73%), reached at a median of 2 hours after administration (Tmax); the AUC of vorasidenib at steady-state is 1,988 hours x ng/mL (CV, 95%). Steady-state is achieved within 28 days of once-daily dosing; the mean accumulation ratio is 4.4. Vorasidenib exposure increases approximately proportionally between 0.2 to 4 times the exposure at the highest approved recommended dose following once daily administration of single and multiple doses. The mean absolute bioavailability of vorasidenib is 34%.
 
A high-fat, high-calorie meal (800 to 1,000 calories; 500 to 600 calories from fat) increased the Cmax and AUC of vorasidenib by 3.1-fold and 1.4-fold, respectively, compared to fasting conditions. A low-fat, low calorie meal (400 to 500 calories; 100 to 125 calories from fat) increased the Cmax and AUC of vorasidenib by 2.3-fold and 1.4-fold, respectively, compared to fasting conditions.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Mild or moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh A or B) does not have a clinically meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of vorasidenib. The pharmacokinetics of vorasidenib have not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh C).
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Mild or moderate renal impairment (CrCl greater than 40 mL/min) does not have a clinically meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of vorasidenib. The pharmacokinetics of vorasidenib have not been studied in patients with severe renal impairment (CrCl 40 mL/min or less) or in patients who require dialysis.
    Name
    Pediatrics
    Description
    Based on population pharmacokinetic data, age does not have a clinically meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of vorasidenib. The exposure of vorasidenib in pediatric patients 12 years and older is predicted to be within range of exposure in adults at the recommended dosage.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Age (16 to 75 years) does not have a clinically meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of vorasidenib.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    Sex does not have a clinically meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of vorasidenib.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    Neither race (White, Black, Asian, American Indian/Alaskan Native, Native Hawaiian, Other Pacific Islander) nor ethnicity (Hispanic or non-Hispanic) has a clinically meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of vorasidenib.
    Name
    Obesity
    Description
    Body weight (43.5 kg to 168 kg) does not have a clinically meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of vorasidenib.
    Name
    Other
    Description
    Pharmacodynamics
The posterior median percentage reduction in tumor 2-hydroxyglutarate (2-HG) was 64% to 93% in patients who received vorasidenib at exposures that were 0.3 to 0.8 times the exposure observed with the highest recommended dose compared to those who received placebo. The exposure-response relationship and time course of pharmacodynamic response have not been fully characterized.
  Text
  Vorasidenib is administered orally. It is 97% protein bound in human plasma, independent of concentrations in vitro. The brain tumor-to-plasma concentration ratio is 1.6. The mean volume of distribution at steady-state of vorasidenib is 3,930 liters (CV, 40%). Vorasidenib has a mean terminal half-life at steady-state of 10 days (CV, 57%); oral clearance is 14 liters/hour (CV, 56%). After a single oral radiolabeled dose of vorasidenib, 85% was recovered in the feces (56% as unchanged drug) and 4.5% in the urine.
 
Affected cytochrome (CYP) P450 isoenzymes and transporters: CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6 and CYP3A
Vorasidenib is primarily metabolized by CYP1A2 with minor contributions from CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6 and CYP3A. Non-CYP pathways may contribute up to 30% of its metabolism. In vitro, vorasidenib is an inducer of CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19 and CYP3A and UGT1A4; it is also a BCRP inhibitor.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Administer vorasidenib with water, with or without food. Do not split, crush, or chew tablets.
Give vorasidenib at about the same time each day. If a dose is missed, take the missed dose as soon as possible within 6 hours of when it was due. If the dose is missed by more than 6 hours, skip the missed dose and take the next dose at the scheduled time.
If vomiting occurs, do not take a replacement dose. Take the next dose at the scheduled time on the following day.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    40 mg PO once daily.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    40 mg PO once daily.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    40 kg or greater: 40 mg PO once daily.
Less than 40 kg: 20 mg PO once daily.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    12 years of age
40 kg or greater: 40 mg PO once daily.
Less than 40 kg: 20 mg PO once daily.
 
11 years or younger
Safety and efficacy not established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy not established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Baseline Hepatic Impairment
Child-Pugh A and B: No dosage adjustment necessary.
Child-Pugh C: The pharmacokinetics and safety of vorasidenib have not been studied. Monitor for increased adverse events and adjust the dose as recommended.
 
Treatment-Related Hepatotoxicity
Grade 1 increase in AST or ALT (greater than the upper limit of normal [ULN] to 3 times ULN): No dose adjustment necessary. Monitor liver function tests weekly until AST/ALT recovers to less than grade 1.
Grade 2 increase in AST or ALT (greater than 3 to 5 times ULN) WITHOUT concurrent increase in total bilirubin greater than 2 times ULN: Hold vorasidenib. When AST/ALT recovers to grade 1 or less or baseline, resume treatment. For the first occurrence, resume treatment at the same dose if recovery is within 28 days or less, and reduce the dose if recovery occurs after 28 days. For a recurrence of grade 2 transaminitis, resume vorasidenib at a reduced dose.
Grade 3 increase in AST or ALT (greater than 5 to 20 times ULN) WITHOUT concurrent total bilirubin greater than 2 times ULN: For the first occurrence, hold vorasidenib. If AST/ALT recovers to grade 1 or less or baseline in 28 days or less, resume treatment at a reduced dose; if AST/ALT has not recovered within 28 days, permanently discontinue therapy. For a recurrence of grade 3 transaminitis, permanently discontinue vorasidenib.
Grade 2 or 3 increase in AST/ALT (greater than 3 to 20 times ULN) WITH concurrent total bilirubin greater than 2 times ULN: For the first occurrence, hold vorasidenib; when AST/ALT recovers to grade 1 or less or baseline, resume treatment at a reduced dose. For the second occurrence, permanently discontinue vorasidenib.
Grade 4 increase in AST or ALT (greater than 20 times ULN): Permanently discontinue vorasidenib.
  Renal Impairment
  Baseline Renal Impairment
CrCl greater than 40 mL/min: No dosage adjustment necessary.
CrCl 40 mL/min or less, or dialysis: The pharmacokinetics and safety of vorasidenib have not been studied. Monitor for increased adverse events and adjust the dose as recommended.
