=== Molindone (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 1456)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Molindone is an oral dihydroindolone (non-phenothiazine) antipsychotic agent used for the symptomatic management of schizophrenia.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 225 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, eosinophilia, fever, hemolytic anemia, leukocytosis, leukopenia, neutropenia, pancytopenia, purpura, thrombocytopenia, akathisia, akinesia, dystonic reaction, pseudoparkinsonism, tremor, depression, drowsiness, euphoria, seizures, blurred vision, hypersalivation, priapism, urinary retention, amenorrhea, galactorrhea, gynecomastia, hyperprolactinemia, libido increase, hyponatremia

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Molindone has not been shown effective in the management of behavioral complications in patients with mental retardation.

Brand Names
  - Moban

Dosage Forms
  - Molindone Hydrochloride 10mg Oral tablet
  - Molindone Hydrochloride 25mg Oral tablet
  - Molindone Hydrochloride 5mg Oral tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        50 to 75 mg/day PO in 3 or 4 divided doses, initially. May increase to 100 mg/day after 3 or 4 days. Adjust to response and tolerance. Geriatric or debilitated adults should be started on a lower dosage. Maintenance dosage: 5 to 15 mg PO 3 to 4 times daily for mild symptoms, 10 to 25 mg 3 to 4 times daily for moderate symptoms, and up to 225 mg/day given in divided doses may be required for severe symptoms.
        Heading
        Children and Adolescents 12 to 17 years
        Dosage Description
        50 to 75 mg/day PO in 3 or 4 divided doses, initially. May increase to 100 mg/day after 3 or 4 days. Adjust to response and tolerance. Debilitated patients should receive a lower initial dosage. Maintenance dosage: 5 to 15 mg PO 3 to 4 times daily for mild symptoms, 10 to 25 mg 3 to 4 times daily for moderate symptoms, and up to 225 mg/day given in divided doses may be required for severe symptoms.
    Heading
    For the treatment of schizophrenia

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    Treatment-Related Restrictions of Use
    General Information
    Molindone has not been shown effective in the management of behavioral complications in patients with mental retardation.
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    Molindone has an antiemetic effect in animals. A similar effect may occur in humans and may obscure signs of intestinal obstruction or brain tumor.
    Headline
    activities requiring coordination and concentration, CNS depression, coma, driving or operating machinery
    General Information
    Molindone is contraindicated in patients who are in a coma or in a state of severe CNS depression (e.g., due to alcohol, barbiturates, narcotics, etc.). Molindone has the potential to impair judgment, thinking, or motor skills; caution patients about driving or operating machinery or other activities requiring coordination and concentration until they are reasonably certain that molindone does not affect them adversely. Given the primary CNS effects of molindone, patients should use caution during coadministration with alcohol and other CNS depressants. Antipsychotics, including molindone, may cause somnolence, postural hypotension, motor and sensory instability, which may lead to falls and, consequently, fractures or other injuries. For people with diseases, conditions, or medications that could exacerbate these effects, complete fall risk assessments when initiating antipsychotic treatment and periodically during long-term antipsychotic therapy.
    Headline
    leukopenia
    General Information
    Hematologic effects including leukopenia, neutropenia, and agranulocytosis have been associated with antipsychotic use. Possible risk factors for leukopenia/neutropenia include pre-existing low white blood cell count (WBC) and a history of drug induced leukopenia or neutropenia. People with a history of clinically significant low WBC count or drug-induced leukopenia/neutropenia should have frequent complete blood count (CBC) assessments during the first few months of treatment. Consider discontinuation of the antipsychotic if a clinically significant decline in WBC occurs in the absence of an identifiable cause. Monitor patients with clinically significant neutropenia closely for fever and infection; institute appropriate medical intervention if necessary. Molindone should be discontinued in patients with severe neutropenia (absolute neutrophil count less than 1,000/mm3), with ongoing medical care until the symptoms resolve.
    Headline
    seizures
    General Information
    As with other antipsychotic drugs, molindone should be used cautiously in people with a history of seizures, a seizure disorder, or with conditions that potentially lower the seizure threshold. While molindone did not lower the seizure threshold in experimental studies, seizures have been reported in clinical use.
    Headline
    Parkinson disease
    General Information
    Increased activity (hyperkinesis, akathisia, extrapyramidal symptoms) has been noted in patients receiving molindone. Caution should be exercised in people where increased activity may be harmful. For example, avoid use of molindone in people with Parkinson disease unless the benefit clearly outweighs the risk of worsening motor symptoms. Antipsychotics can worsen the motor symptoms of Parkinson disease and can also lead to the development of extrapyramidal symptoms. Additionally, central blockade of dopamine (D2) receptors by molindone may worsen the motor symptoms of Parkinson disease.
    Headline
    dysphagia, increased risk for aspiration
    General Information
    Patients with dysphagia or who are at increased risk for aspiration should be closely monitored while receiving molindone. Antipsychotics have been associated with esophageal dysmotility and aspiration of gastric contents, which may increase the incidence of aspiration pneumonia in susceptible patient populations, such as those with severe Alzheimer disease.
    Headline
    conditions contributing to an elevated core body temperature
    General Information
    Antipsychotics have been reported to disrupt the body's ability to reduce core body temperature, presumably through effects on the hypothalamus, which may predispose patients to hyperthermia. Patients receiving molindone should be advised of conditions contributing to an elevated core body temperature (e.g., strenuous exercise, ambient temperature increase, dehydration, or concurrent use of anticholinergic medications such as atropine and its derivatives).
    Headline
    breast cancer, increased risk for breast cancer
    General Information
    Molindone can cause hyperprolactinemia due to central dopamine D2 receptor antagonism; the elevation persists during chronic administration. In animal studies, an increase in mammary gland neoplasias has been found after chronic administration of antipsychotic medications. Although the clinical significance of these findings is unknown, some human breast cancers may be prolactin-dependent; therefore, molindone should be used cautiously in those who have breast cancer or an increased risk for breast cancer, such as those with genetic markers or a personal or family history. Published epidemiologic studies have shown inconsistent results when exploring the potential association between hyperprolactinemia and breast cancer.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Data are insufficient to advise a drug-associated risk of molindone use during pregnancy. Animal reproductive studies have not demonstrated teratogenic potential. The anticipated maternal benefits must be weighed against the unknown risks to the fetus. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors outcomes in pregnant patients exposed to antipsychotics, including molindone; information about the registry can be obtained at https://womensmentalhealth.org/clinical-and-research-programs/pregnancyregistry or by phone 1-866-961-2388. It is not known if the effects of molindone on prolactin secretion affect labor and obstetric delivery.
    Headline
    people who can cause pregnancy in others, people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel people who may become pregnant and people who can cause pregnancy in others about the reproductive risk associated with molindone. The American Psychiatric Association treatment guidelines for schizophrenia recommend pregnancy testing in people of childbearing potential prior to initiation of an antipsychotic. Molindone can cause hyperprolactinemia as a result of central dopamine D2 receptor antagonism, which may suppress hypothalamic GnRH and can result in reduced pituitary gonadotropin secretion. This, in turn, may inhibit reproductive function by impairing gonadal steroidogenesis in both females and males. Elevations in prolactin may lead to a reversible reduction in fertility in people who may become pregnant and impairment of gonadal steroidogenesis may also be of concern in people who can cause pregnancy in others. Hyperprolactinemia can also cause other endocrine abnormalities in both adult and pediatric populations. Close monitoring for adverse endocrine effects is advisable during molindone use.
    Headline
    dementia with psychotic disturbance, geriatric
    General Information
    Geriatric adults may be more susceptible to the actions and adverse effects of conventional antipsychotics; start molindone with lower doses followed by careful dosage titration and close monitoring. Antipsychotics pose a risk of increased mortality when used for dementia with psychotic disturbance in geriatric adults. Most of the deaths are cardiovascular (e.g., heart failure, sudden death) or infectious (e.g., pneumonia) in nature. A higher incidence of stroke and transient ischemic attack, including fatal stroke, has also been reported. Initiate molindone at the lower end of the dosage range and titrate carefully in the older adult. Molindone is not approved for the treatment of dementia with psychotic disturbance. The Beers Criteria label antipsychotics as potentially inappropriate medications for geriatric adults, except for specific indications like schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, or short-term use as part of an antiemetic regimen during chemotherapy. Avoid use in delirium, dementia, or non-psychotic Parkinson disease. Reserve antipsychotic use for when non-pharmacologic strategies have failed, are not possible, or the patient poses a danger to self or others. Due to the potential for hyponatremia and SIADH, monitor sodium levels. The U.S. Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act (OBRA) regulates antipsychotic use in long-term care facilities and requires documented clinical justification. Taper antipsychotics unless clinically contraindicated, following guidelines for indications, dosages, and duration. OBRA limits "as needed" use to 14 days in long-term care facilities, with ongoing use requiring evaluation by the prescriber.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use molindone with caution during breast-feeding. Data are not available regarding the transfer of molindone into human breast milk. In some instances, maternal use of other antipsychotics during breast-feeding has caused drowsiness, lethargy, and developmental delays in the nursing infant. Molindone may induce hyperprolactinemia and galactorrhea, and thus may interfere with proper lactation. Due to individual variability in response to antipsychotics, it may be prudent to continue the existing regimen if ongoing treatment is deemed necessary during breast-feeding. Alternate medications for consideration include atypical agents such as olanzapine or quetiapine. Data regarding the safety of atypical antipsychotics during breast-feeding are limited. Regardless of the antipsychotic used, the breastfed infant should be closely monitored for excessive drowsiness, lethargy, and developmental delays. Combination treatment with antipsychotics may increase the risk of these adverse events. 46865
    Headline
    neonates and infants exposed to this medication in utero
    General Information
    Neonates and infants exposed to this medication in utero during the third trimester of pregnancy are at risk for extrapyramidal and/or withdrawal symptoms following delivery. There have been reports of agitation, hypertonia, hypotonia, tremor, somnolence, respiratory distress and feeding disorders in these neonates. These complications have varied in severity; while in some cases symptoms have been self-limited, in other cases neonates have required intensive care unit support and prolonged hospitalization. Neonates exhibiting signs or symptoms of extrapyramidal effects or withdrawal should be carefully monitored. The knowledge about long-term neurobehavioral effects in offspring is limited for all antipsychotic agents and requires further investigation.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Data are insufficient to advise a drug-associated risk of molindone use during pregnancy. Animal reproductive studies have not demonstrated teratogenic potential. The anticipated maternal benefits must be weighed against the unknown risks to the fetus. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors outcomes in pregnant patients exposed to antipsychotics, including molindone; information about the registry can be obtained at https://womensmentalhealth.org/clinical-and-research-programs/pregnancyregistry or by phone 1-866-961-2388. It is not known if the effects of molindone on prolactin secretion affect labor and obstetric delivery.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Counsel people who may become pregnant and people who can cause pregnancy in others about the reproductive risk associated with molindone. The American Psychiatric Association treatment guidelines for schizophrenia recommend pregnancy testing in people of childbearing potential prior to initiation of an antipsychotic. Molindone can cause hyperprolactinemia as a result of central dopamine D2 receptor antagonism, which may suppress hypothalamic GnRH and can result in reduced pituitary gonadotropin secretion. This, in turn, may inhibit reproductive function by impairing gonadal steroidogenesis in both females and males. Elevations in prolactin may lead to a reversible reduction in fertility in people who may become pregnant and impairment of gonadal steroidogenesis may also be of concern in people who can cause pregnancy in others. Hyperprolactinemia can also cause other endocrine abnormalities in both adult and pediatric populations. Close monitoring for adverse endocrine effects is advisable during molindone use.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating h1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including molindone.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists like dihydrocodeine with molindone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with molindone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking molindone.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating h1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including molindone.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating h1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including molindone.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating h1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including molindone.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating h1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including molindone.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating h1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including molindone.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating h1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including molindone.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists like codeine with molindone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with molindone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking molindone.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating h1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including molindone.
Acetaminophen; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating h1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including molindone.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists like hydrocodone with molindone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with molindone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking molindone.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists like oxycodone with molindone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with molindone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Acetaminophen; Pamabrom; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating h1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including molindone.
acetaZOLAMIDE: (Moderate) Consistent with the pharmacology of molindone, additive effects may occur with other CNS active drugs such as anticonvulsants. In addition, seizures have been reported during the use of molindone, which is of particular significance in patients with a seizure disorder receiving anticonvulsants. Adequate dosages of anticonvulsants should be continued when molindone is added; patients should be monitored for clinical evidence of loss of seizure control or the need for dosage adjustments of either molindone or the anticonvulsant.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists like alfentanil with molindone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with molindone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
ALPRAZolam: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of alprazolam with CNS-depressant drugs, including antipsychotics, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent.
Amantadine: (Moderate) Although the mechanism of amantadine is not clear, it may potentiate the actions of dopamine. Since molindone is a dopamine antagonist, this drug is best avoided when possible in patients with Parkinson's disease who require amantadine therapy.
Amifampridine: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with molindone and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Molindone may increase the risk of seizures.
Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Antipsychotics are associated with anticholinergic effects; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use of molindone and other drugs having anticholinergic activity such as tricyclic antidepressants. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may also occur.
Amoxapine: (Moderate) Use caution during co-administration of amoxapine and molindone. Amoxapine exhibits some antipsychotic activity and may increase the risk of tardive dyskinesia or neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) when antipsychotics are given concurrently. CNS effects, orthostatic hypotension, anticholinergic effects, and lowering of seizure threshold are potential problems with the combined use of amoxapine and antipsychotics.
Amphetamine: (Major) Concurrent use of antipsychotics and amphetamines should generally be avoided. Antipsychotics and amphetamines may interact pharmacodynamically to diminish the therapeutic effects of either agent through opposing effects on dopamine. Amphetamines are thought to block central dopamine reuptake, which has the potential to exacerbate psychosis, and antipsychotics, which are central dopamine antagonists, may diminish the effectiveness of amphetamines.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine Salts: (Major) Concurrent use of antipsychotics and amphetamines should generally be avoided. Antipsychotics and amphetamines may interact pharmacodynamically to diminish the therapeutic effects of either agent through opposing effects on dopamine. Amphetamines are thought to block central dopamine reuptake, which has the potential to exacerbate psychosis, and antipsychotics, which are central dopamine antagonists, may diminish the effectiveness of amphetamines.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Major) Concurrent use of antipsychotics and amphetamines should generally be avoided. Antipsychotics and amphetamines may interact pharmacodynamically to diminish the therapeutic effects of either agent through opposing effects on dopamine. Amphetamines are thought to block central dopamine reuptake, which has the potential to exacerbate psychosis, and antipsychotics, which are central dopamine antagonists, may diminish the effectiveness of amphetamines.
Anticholinergics: (Moderate) Antipsychotics are associated with anticholinergic effects; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use of molindone and other drugs having anticholinergic activity such as antimuscarinics. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may also occur.
Apomorphine: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, molindone and dopamine agonists may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic as an alternative to molindone. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
ARIPiprazole: (Major) Close monitoring is advisable during concurrent use of molindone with other antipsychotics. Because molindone shares certain pharmacological properties with other antipsychotics, additive cardiac effects (e.g., hypotension), CNS effects (e.g., drowsiness), or anticholinergic effects (e.g., constipation, xerostomia) may occur. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
Asenapine: (Major) Close monitoring is advisable during concurrent use of molindone with other antipsychotics. Because molindone shares certain pharmacological properties with other antipsychotics, additive cardiac effects (e.g., hypotension), CNS effects (e.g., drowsiness), anticholinergic effects (e.g., constipation, xerostomia), extrapyramidal effects, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, or seizures may occur. Although the incidence of tardive dyskinesia from combination antipsychotic therapy has not been established and data are very limited, the risk appears to be increased during use of a conventional and atypical antipsychotic versus use of a conventional antipsychotic alone.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Simultaneous use of skeletal muscle relaxants and other CNS depressants, such as molindone, can increase CNS depression. In addition, antipsychotics are associated with anticholinergic effects; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use of molindone and other drugs having anticholinergic activity. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists like codeine with molindone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with molindone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking molindone. (Moderate) Simultaneous use of skeletal muscle relaxants and other CNS depressants, such as molindone, can increase CNS depression. In addition, antipsychotics are associated with anticholinergic effects; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use of molindone and other drugs having anticholinergic activity. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists like oxycodone with molindone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with molindone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Atropine: (Moderate) Antipsychotics are associated with anticholinergic effects; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use of molindone and other drugs having anticholinergic activity such as antimuscarinics. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may also occur.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Moderate) Antipsychotics are associated with anticholinergic effects; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use of molindone and other drugs having anticholinergic activity such as antimuscarinics. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may also occur. (Moderate) Concurrent administration of diphenoxylate/difenoxin with molindone can potentiate the CNS-depressant effects of diphenoxylate/difenoxin. Use caution during coadministration.
Baclofen: (Moderate) Simultaneous use of skeletal muscle relaxants and other CNS depressants, such as molindone, can increase CNS depression. In addition, antipsychotics are associated with anticholinergic effects; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use of molindone and other drugs having anticholinergic activity. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
Belladonna; Opium: (Moderate) Antipsychotics are associated with anticholinergic effects; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use of molindone and other drugs having anticholinergic activity such as antimuscarinics. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may also occur. (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists like opium with molindone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with molindone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists like benzhydrocodone with molindone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with molindone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Moderate) Antipsychotics are associated with anticholinergic effects; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use of molindone and other drugs having anticholinergic activity such as antimuscarinics. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may also occur.
Benzphetamine: (Major) Concurrent use of antipsychotics and amphetamines should generally be avoided. Antipsychotics and amphetamines may interact pharmacodynamically to diminish the therapeutic effects of either agent through opposing effects on dopamine. Amphetamines are thought to block central dopamine reuptake, which has the potential to exacerbate psychosis, and antipsychotics, which are central dopamine antagonists, may diminish the effectiveness of amphetamines.
Benztropine: (Moderate) Antipsychotics are associated with anticholinergic effects; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use of molindone and other drugs having anticholinergic activity such as antimuscarinics. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may also occur.
Bismuth Subcitrate Potassium; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Major) The tablet formulation of molindone contains calcium sulfate as an excipient and the calcium ions may interfere with the absorption of tetracyclines. It may be advisable to consider an alternative to tetracycline treatment during molindone administration.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Major) The tablet formulation of molindone contains calcium sulfate as an excipient and the calcium ions may interfere with the absorption of tetracyclines. It may be advisable to consider an alternative to tetracycline treatment during molindone administration.
Brexpiprazole: (Major) Caution is advisable during concurrent use of brexpiprazole with other antipsychotics such as molindone. The risk of drowsiness, dizziness, hypotension, extrapyramidal symptoms, anticholinergic effects, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, or seizures may be increased during combined use; therefore, it may be advisable to initiate treatment with lower dosages if combination therapy is deemed necessary. Although the incidence of tardive dyskinesia from combination antipsychotic therapy has not been established and data are very limited, the risk appears to be increased during use of a conventional and atypical antipsychotic versus use of a conventional antipsychotic alone.
Bromocriptine: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in bromocriptine efficacy if concomitant use with molindone is necessary. Bromocriptine is a dopamine D2 receptor agonist and molindone is a dopamine receptor antagonist.
Brompheniramine: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating h1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including molindone.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating h1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including molindone.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating h1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including molindone.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating h1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including molindone.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating h1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including molindone.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Antipsychotics are associated with anticholinergic effects; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use of molindone and other drugs having anticholinergic activity such as antimuscarinics. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may also occur.
Buprenorphine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of buprenorphine with other CNS depressants can lead to additive CNS depressive effects. Hypotension, profound sedation, coma, respiratory depression, or death may occur; examples of other CNS depressants can include molindone. Prior to concurrent use of buprenorphine in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted. It is recommended that the injectable buprenorphine dose be halved for patients who receive other drugs with CNS depressant effects; for the buprenorphine transdermal patch, start with the 5 mcg/hour patch. Monitor patients for sedation or respiratory depression.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of buprenorphine with other CNS depressants can lead to additive CNS depressive effects. Hypotension, profound sedation, coma, respiratory depression, or death may occur; examples of other CNS depressants can include molindone. Prior to concurrent use of buprenorphine in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Consider the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted. It is recommended that the injectable buprenorphine dose be halved for patients who receive other drugs with CNS depressant effects; for the buprenorphine transdermal patch, start with the 5 mcg/hour patch. Monitor patients for sedation or respiratory depression.
buPROPion: (Major) Drugs which may lower the seizure threshold, such as molindone, should be used with great caution or avoided in patients taking bupropion. The manufacturer recommends low initial dosing and slow dosage titration of bupropion if this combination must be used concurrently; the patient should be closely monitored.
buPROPion; Naltrexone: (Major) Drugs which may lower the seizure threshold, such as molindone, should be used with great caution or avoided in patients taking bupropion. The manufacturer recommends low initial dosing and slow dosage titration of bupropion if this combination must be used concurrently; the patient should be closely monitored.
busPIRone: (Moderate) The combination of buspirone and CNS depressants like the antipsychotics can increase the risk for sedation.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists like codeine with molindone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with molindone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking molindone.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists like codeine with molindone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with molindone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking molindone.
Butorphanol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of butorphanol with other central nervous system (CNS) depressants, such as molindone, can potentiate the effects of butorphanol and may lead to additive CNS or respiratory depression. Prior to concurrent use of butorphanol in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. If these agents are used together, a reduced dosage of butorphanol and/or molindone may be necessary. Carefully monitor the patient for hypotension, CNS depression, and respiratory depression.
Cabergoline: (Moderate) Cabergoline should not be coadministered with molindone due to mutually antagonistic effects on dopaminergic function. The dopamine antagonist action of molindone may diminish the prolactin-lowering ability of cabergoline while the dopamine agonist effects of cabergoline may exacerbate a psychotic disorder, reducing the effectiveness of antipsychotics such as molindone.
Cannabidiol: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of cannabidiol and molindone. CNS depressants can potentiate the effects of cannabidiol.
Capsaicin; Metaxalone: (Moderate) Simultaneous use of skeletal muscle relaxants and other CNS depressants, such as molindone, can increase CNS depression. In addition, antipsychotics are associated with anticholinergic effects; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use of molindone and other drugs having anticholinergic activity. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Increased CNS depressant effects can occur during combined use of carbamazepine and molindone. Decreased anticonvulsant efficacy is a possibility when some antipsychotic agents, such as molindone, are administered to patients with a seizure disorder, because some of these drugs lower the seizure threshold. Dosage adjustments may be necessary, and closer monitoring of clinical and/or adverse effects is warranted when carbamazepine is used with molindone.
Carbidopa; Levodopa: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in levodopa efficacy during concomitant use of levodopa and dopamine D2 receptor antagonists, such as molindone. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists interfere with dopamine's actions.
Carbidopa; Levodopa; Entacapone: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, molindone and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors. (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in levodopa efficacy during concomitant use of levodopa and dopamine D2 receptor antagonists, such as molindone. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists interfere with dopamine's actions.
Carbinoxamine: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating h1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including molindone.
Cariprazine: (Major) Avoid use of these drugs together due to duplicative therapeutic effects and additive risks for drowsiness, dizziness, orthostatic hypotension, extrapyramidal symptoms, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, and seizures. Cariprazine, like other antipsychotics, has the potential to impair judgment, thinking, or motor skills. The use of cariprazine with other antipsychotic agents, such as molindone, would be expected to have additive risks for pharmacologic effects and adverse reactions. Although the incidence of tardive dyskinesia from combination antipsychotic therapy has not been established and data are very limited, the risk appears to be increased during combined use of a conventional and atypical antipsychotic versus use of a conventional antipsychotic alone.
Carisoprodol: (Moderate) Simultaneous use of skeletal muscle relaxants and other CNS depressants, such as molindone, can increase CNS depression. In addition, antipsychotics are associated with anticholinergic effects; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use of molindone and other drugs having anticholinergic activity. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists like tramadol with molindone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with molindone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Also, concomitant use of tramadol increases the seizure risk in patients taking molindone.
Cenobamate: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of cenobamate and molindone. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Cetirizine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with molindone should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with molindone should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Cetrorelix: (Moderate) Antipsychotics cause hyperprolactinemia and should not be administered concomitantly with cetrorelix since hyperprolactinemia downregulates the number of pituitary GnRH receptors.
Chlophedianol; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating h1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including molindone.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating h1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including molindone.
Chlorcyclizine: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating h1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including molindone.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Antipsychotics are associated with anticholinergic effects; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use of molindone and other drugs having anticholinergic activity such as tricyclic antidepressants. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may also occur.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Moderate) Antipsychotics are associated with anticholinergic effects; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use of molindone and other drugs having anticholinergic activity such as antimuscarinics. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may also occur.
Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating h1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including molindone.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating h1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including molindone. (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists like codeine with molindone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with molindone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking molindone.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating h1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including molindone.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating h1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including molindone.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating h1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including molindone.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating h1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including molindone. (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists like hydrocodone with molindone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with molindone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking molindone.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating h1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including molindone.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating h1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including molindone.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating h1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including molindone.
chlorproMAZINE: (Major) Close monitoring is advisable during concurrent use of molindone with other antipsychotics. Because molindone shares certain pharmacological properties with other antipsychotics, additive cardiac effects (e.g., hypotension), CNS effects (e.g., drowsiness), anticholinergic effects (e.g., constipation, xerostomia), extrapyramidal effects, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, or seizures may occur. The likelihood of these pharmacodynamic interactions varies based upon the individual properties of the co-administered antipsychotic agent. Although the incidence of tardive dyskinesia from combination antipsychotic therapy has not been established and data are very limited, the risk appears to be increased during use of a conventional and atypical antipsychotic versus use of a conventional antipsychotic alone.
Chlorzoxazone: (Moderate) Simultaneous use of skeletal muscle relaxants and other CNS depressants, such as molindone, can increase CNS depression. In addition, antipsychotics are associated with anticholinergic effects; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use of molindone and other drugs having anticholinergic activity. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
Clemastine: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating h1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including molindone.
cloBAZam: (Major) Clobazam, a benzodiazepine, may cause drowsiness or other CNS effects which may be potentiated during concurrent use of conventional antipsychotics including molindone. Antipsychotics may lower the seizure threshold and reduce the effectiveness of clobazam as an anticonvulsant. Additionally, seizures have been reported during the use of molindone, which is of particular significance in patients with a seizure disorder receiving anticonvulsants. Adequate dosages of anticonvulsants should be continued when molindone is added; patients should be monitored for clinical evidence of loss of seizure control or the need for dosage adjustments of either molindone or the anticonvulsant.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) Antipsychotics are associated with anticholinergic effects; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use of molindone and other drugs having anticholinergic activity such as tricyclic antidepressants. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may also occur.
clonazePAM: (Moderate) Consistent with the pharmacology of molindone, additive effects may occur with other CNS active drugs such as anticonvulsants. In addition, seizures have been reported during the use of molindone, which is of particular significance in patients with a seizure disorder receiving anticonvulsants. Adequate dosages of anticonvulsants should be continued when molindone is added; patients should be monitored for clinical evidence of loss of seizure control or the need for dosage adjustments of either molindone or the anticonvulsant.
Clorazepate: (Moderate) Consistent with the pharmacology of molindone, additive central nervous system (CNS) effects may occur with other CNS active drugs such as anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics. Caution is advisable during concurrent use.
cloZAPine: (Major) Close monitoring is advisable during concurrent use of molindone and clozapine. Because molindone shares certain pharmacological properties with other antipsychotics, additive cardiac effects (e.g., hypotension), CNS effects (e.g., drowsiness), or anticholinergic effects (e.g., constipation, xerostomia) may occur.
Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists like codeine with molindone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with molindone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking molindone.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating h1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including molindone. (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists like codeine with molindone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with molindone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking molindone.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists like codeine with molindone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with molindone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking molindone.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists like codeine with molindone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with molindone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking molindone.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Co-administration of promethazine with molindone may increase the risk of adverse effects such as drowsiness, dizziness, orthostatic hypotension, anticholinergic effects, extrapyramidal symptoms, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, or seizures. The likelihood of these pharmacodynamic interactions varies based upon the individual properties of the co-administered antipsychotic agent. Although the incidence of tardive dyskinesia from these combinations has not been established and data are very limited, the risk may be increased during combined use versus use of an antipsychotic alone. (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists like codeine with molindone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with molindone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking molindone.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Co-administration of promethazine with molindone may increase the risk of adverse effects such as drowsiness, dizziness, orthostatic hypotension, anticholinergic effects, extrapyramidal symptoms, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, or seizures. The likelihood of these pharmacodynamic interactions varies based upon the individual properties of the co-administered antipsychotic agent. Although the incidence of tardive dyskinesia from these combinations has not been established and data are very limited, the risk may be increased during combined use versus use of an antipsychotic alone. (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists like codeine with molindone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with molindone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking molindone.
COMT inhibitors: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, molindone and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Cyclobenzaprine: (Moderate) Simultaneous use of skeletal muscle relaxants and other CNS depressants, such as molindone, can increase CNS depression. In addition, antipsychotics are associated with anticholinergic effects; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use of molindone and other drugs having anticholinergic activity. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
Cyproheptadine: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating h1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including molindone.
Dantrolene: (Moderate) Simultaneous use of skeletal muscle relaxants and other CNS depressants, such as molindone, can increase CNS depression. In addition, antipsychotics are associated with anticholinergic effects; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use of molindone and other drugs having anticholinergic activity. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
Degarelix: (Major) Avoid coadministration of degarelix with molindone due to the risk of reduced efficacy of degarelix. Molindone can cause hyperprolactinemia, which reduces the number of pituitary gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) receptors; degarelix is a GnRH analog.
Demeclocycline: (Major) The tablet formulation of molindone contains calcium sulfate as an excipient and the calcium ions may interfere with the absorption of tetracyclines. It may be advisable to consider an alternative to tetracycline treatment during molindone administration.
Desipramine: (Moderate) Antipsychotics are associated with anticholinergic effects; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use of molindone and other drugs having anticholinergic activity such as tricyclic antidepressants. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may also occur.
Deutetrabenazine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS), restlessness, and agitation. If NMS is diagnosed, immediately discontinue deutetrabenazine, and provide intensive symptomatic treatment and medical monitoring. Recurrence of NMS has been reported with resumption of drug therapy. If akathisia or parkinsonism develops during treatment, the deutetrabenazine dose should be reduced; discontinuation may be required. Deutetrabenazine is a reversible, dopamine depleting drug and molindone is a dopamine antagonist. The risk for parkinsonism, NMS, or akathisia may be increased with concomitant administration. Additionally, advise patients that concurrent use of deutetrabenazine and drugs that cause CNS depression, such as molindone, may have additive effects and worsen drowsiness or sedation.
Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating h1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including molindone.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating h1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including molindone.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating h1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including molindone.
Dexchlorpheniramine: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating h1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including molindone.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating h1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including molindone.
Dextroamphetamine: (Major) Concurrent use of antipsychotics and amphetamines should generally be avoided. Antipsychotics and amphetamines may interact pharmacodynamically to diminish the therapeutic effects of either agent through opposing effects on dopamine. Amphetamines are thought to block central dopamine reuptake, which has the potential to exacerbate psychosis, and antipsychotics, which are central dopamine antagonists, may diminish the effectiveness of amphetamines.
Dextromethorphan; buPROPion: (Major) Drugs which may lower the seizure threshold, such as molindone, should be used with great caution or avoided in patients taking bupropion. The manufacturer recommends low initial dosing and slow dosage titration of bupropion if this combination must be used concurrently; the patient should be closely monitored.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating h1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including molindone.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Consistent with the pharmacology of molindone, additive effects may occur with other CNS active drugs such as anticonvulsants. In addition, seizures have been reported during the use of molindone, which is of particular significance in patients with a seizure disorder receiving anticonvulsants. Adequate dosages of anticonvulsants should be continued when molindone is added; patients should be monitored for clinical evidence of loss of seizure control or the need for dosage adjustments of either molindone or the anticonvulsant.
Dicyclomine: (Moderate) Antipsychotics are associated with anticholinergic effects; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use of molindone and other drugs having anticholinergic activity such as antimuscarinics. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may also occur.
Difelikefalin: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
dimenhyDRINATE: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating h1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including molindone.
diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating h1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including molindone.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating h1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including molindone.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating h1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including molindone.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating h1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including molindone.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Moderate) Antipsychotics are associated with anticholinergic effects; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use of molindone and other drugs having anticholinergic activity such as antimuscarinics. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may also occur. (Moderate) Concurrent administration of diphenoxylate/difenoxin with molindone can potentiate the CNS-depressant effects of diphenoxylate/difenoxin. Use caution during coadministration.
dopamine agonists: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, molindone and dopamine agonists may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic as an alternative to molindone. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Doxepin: (Moderate) Antipsychotics are associated with anticholinergic effects; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use of molindone and other drugs having anticholinergic activity such as tricyclic antidepressants. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may also occur.
Doxycycline: (Major) The tablet formulation of molindone contains calcium sulfate as an excipient and the calcium ions may interfere with the absorption of tetracyclines. It may be advisable to consider an alternative to tetracycline treatment during molindone administration.
Doxylamine: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating h1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including molindone.
Doxylamine; Pyridoxine: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating h1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including molindone.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Molindone may cause central nervous system (CNS) depression thereby having additive effects with other drugs that can cause CNS depression such as dronabinol, THC. Caution is advisable during concurrent use.
droPERidol: (Moderate) Molindone may cause central nervous system (CNS) depression thereby having additive effects with other drugs that can cause CNS depression such as droperidol. Caution is advisable during concurrent use.
Entacapone: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, molindone and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Esketamine: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and molindone for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Eszopiclone: (Moderate) A reduction in the dose of eszopiclone should be considered during co-administration of other CNS depressants, such as molindone, to minimize additive sedative effects. In addition, the risk of next-day psychomotor impairment is increased during co-administration of eszopiclone and other CNS depressants, which may decrease the ability to perform tasks requiring full mental alertness such as driving. Antipsychotics with a higher incidence of sedation, such as olanzapine, clozapine, quetiapine, lurasidone, chlorpromazine, and thioridazine, are more likely to interact with eszopiclone. In one evaluation, concurrent use of eszopiclone and olanzapine reduced psychomotor function as measured by the Digit Symbol Substitution Test (DSST).
Ethanol: (Major) Advise patients to avoid alcohol consumption while taking CNS depressants. Alcohol consumption may result in additive CNS depression.
Ethiodized Oil: (Major) Molindone lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Ethosuximide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ethosuximide with molindone can lower the seizure threshold and reduce the effectiveness of ethosuximide as an anticonvulsant. Additive CNS effects, such as drowsiness, may also occur.
Felbamate: (Moderate) Consistent with the pharmacology of molindone, additive effects may occur with other CNS active drugs such as anticonvulsants. In addition, seizures have been reported during the use of molindone, which is of particular significance in patients with a seizure disorder receiving anticonvulsants. Adequate dosages of anticonvulsants should be continued when molindone is added; patients should be monitored for clinical evidence of loss of seizure control or the need for dosage adjustments of either molindone or the anticonvulsant.
Fenfluramine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of fenfluramine and molindone. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists like fentanyl with molindone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with molindone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
flavoxATE: (Moderate) Antipsychotics are associated with anticholinergic effects; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use of molindone and other drugs having anticholinergic activity such as antimuscarinics. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may also occur.
fluPHENAZine: (Major) Close monitoring is advisable during concurrent use of molindone with other antipsychotics. Because molindone shares certain pharmacological properties with other antipsychotics, additive cardiac effects (e.g., hypotension), CNS effects (e.g., drowsiness), anticholinergic effects (e.g., constipation, xerostomia), extrapyramidal effects, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, or seizures may occur. The likelihood of these pharmacodynamic interactions varies based upon the individual properties of the co-administered antipsychotic agent. Although the incidence of tardive dyskinesia from combination antipsychotic therapy has not been established and data are very limited, the risk appears to be increased during use of a conventional and atypical antipsychotic versus use of a conventional antipsychotic alone.
Foscarbidopa; Foslevodopa: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in levodopa efficacy during concomitant use of levodopa and dopamine D2 receptor antagonists, such as molindone. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists interfere with dopamine's actions.
Fosphenytoin: (Moderate) The hydantoins may induce hepatic microsomal enzymes, leading to increased clearance of the antipsychotic agents, such as molindone. Clinicians should monitor for reduced effectiveness of the antipsychotic agent if hydantoin therapy is added. Antipsychotics may also increase CNS depression and also may lower the seizure threshold, producing a pharmacodynamic interaction with anticonvulsants. Adequate dosages of the anticonvulsant should be continued when an antipsychotic drug is added.
Gabapentin: (Major) Initiate gabapentin at the lowest recommended dose and monitor patients for symptoms of sedation and somnolence during coadministration of gabapentin and molindone. Concomitant use of gabapentin with molindone may cause additive CNS depression. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Ganirelix: (Moderate) Antipsychotics may cause hyperprolactinemia and should not be administered concomitantly with ganirelix since hyperprolactinemia downregulates the number of pituitary GnRH receptors.
Glycopyrrolate: (Moderate) Antipsychotics are associated with anticholinergic effects; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use of molindone and other drugs having anticholinergic activity such as antimuscarinics. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may also occur.
Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Antipsychotics are associated with anticholinergic effects; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use of molindone and other drugs having anticholinergic activity such as antimuscarinics. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may also occur.
Goserelin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of goserelin with molindone due to the risk of reduced efficacy of goserelin. Molindone can cause hyperprolactinemia, which reduces the number of pituitary gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) receptors; goserelin is a GnRH analog.
Haloperidol: (Major) Close monitoring is advisable during concurrent use of molindone with other antipsychotics. Because molindone shares certain pharmacological properties with other antipsychotics, additive cardiac effects (e.g., hypotension), CNS effects (e.g., drowsiness), or anticholinergic effects (e.g., constipation, xerostomia) may occur. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
Histrelin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of histrelin with molindone due to the risk of reduced efficacy of histrelin. Molindone can cause hyperprolactinemia, which reduces the number of pituitary gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) receptors; histrelin is a GnRH analog.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Antipsychotics are associated with anticholinergic effects; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use of molindone and other drugs having anticholinergic activity such as antimuscarinics. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may also occur. (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists like hydrocodone with molindone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with molindone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking molindone.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists like hydrocodone with molindone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with molindone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking molindone.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists like hydrocodone with molindone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with molindone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medication in patients taking molindone.
HYDROmorphone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists like hydromorphone with molindone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with molindone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
hydrOXYzine: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating h1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including molindone.
Hyoscyamine: (Moderate) Antipsychotics are associated with anticholinergic effects; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use of molindone and other drugs having anticholinergic activity such as antimuscarinics. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may also occur.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Moderate) Antipsychotics are associated with anticholinergic effects; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use of molindone and other drugs having anticholinergic activity such as antimuscarinics. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may also occur.
Iloperidone: (Major) Close monitoring is advisable during concurrent use of molindone with other antipsychotics. Because molindone shares certain pharmacological properties with other antipsychotics, additive cardiac effects (e.g., hypotension), CNS effects (e.g., drowsiness), or anticholinergic effects (e.g., constipation, xerostomia) may occur. Although the incidence of tardive dyskinesia from combination antipsychotic therapy has not been established and data are very limited, the risk appears to be increased during use of a conventional and atypical antipsychotic versus use of a conventional antipsychotic alone.
Imipramine: (Moderate) Antipsychotics are associated with anticholinergic effects; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use of molindone and other drugs having anticholinergic activity such as tricyclic antidepressants. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may also occur.
Iodixanol: (Major) Molindone lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Iohexol: (Major) Molindone lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Iomeprol: (Major) Molindone lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Iopamidol: (Major) Molindone lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Iopromide: (Major) Molindone lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Ioversol: (Major) Molindone lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Isosulfan Blue: (Major) Molindone lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Lacosamide: (Moderate) Consistent with the pharmacology of molindone, additive effects may occur with other CNS active drugs such as anticonvulsants. In addition, seizures have been reported during the use of molindone, which is of particular significance in patients with a seizure disorder receiving anticonvulsants. Adequate dosages of anticonvulsants should be continued when molindone is added; patients should be monitored for clinical evidence of loss of seizure control or the need for dosage adjustments of either molindone or the anticonvulsant.
lamoTRIgine: (Moderate) Consistent with the pharmacology of molindone, additive effects may occur with other CNS active drugs such as anticonvulsants. In addition, seizures have been reported during the use of molindone, which is of particular significance in patients with a seizure disorder receiving anticonvulsants. Adequate dosages of anticonvulsants should be continued when molindone is added; patients should be monitored for clinical evidence of loss of seizure control or the need for dosage adjustments of either molindone or the anticonvulsant.
Lasmiditan: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lasmiditan and molindone. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Leuprolide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of leuprolide with molindone due to the risk of reduced efficacy of leuprolide. Molindone can cause hyperprolactinemia, which reduces the number of pituitary gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) receptors; leuprolide is a GnRH analog.
levETIRAcetam: (Moderate) Consistent with the pharmacology of molindone, additive effects may occur with other CNS active drugs such as anticonvulsants. In addition, seizures have been reported during the use of molindone, which is of particular significance in patients with a seizure disorder receiving anticonvulsants. Adequate dosages of anticonvulsants should be continued when molindone is added; patients should be monitored for clinical evidence of loss of seizure control or the need for dosage adjustments of either molindone or the anticonvulsant.
Levocetirizine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with molindone should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Levodopa: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in levodopa efficacy during concomitant use of levodopa and dopamine D2 receptor antagonists, such as molindone. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists interfere with dopamine's actions.
Levorphanol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists like levorphanol with molindone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with molindone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Lithium: (Moderate) It is advisable to monitor patients for neurotoxicity during co-administration of lithium and molindone. Although conventional antipsychotics are considered a treatment option as adjuncts to mood stabilizers such as lithium, neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) and extrapyramidal effects have been observed occasionally during concurrent use. Early case reports described an encephalopathic syndrome consisting of delirium, tremulousness, dyskinesia, seizures, leukocytosis, weakness, hyperpyrexia, confusion, extrapyramidal symptoms, elevations in laboratory values (e.g., liver function tests, blood urea nitrogen, fasting blood sugar) and, in some cases, irreversible brain damage, during use of lithium and conventional antipsychotics, particularly haloperidol. Subsequent rare reports of NMS or NMS-like reactions have been described during co-administration of lithium and atypical antipsychotics (e.g., risperidone, olanzapine, clozapine). Following resolution of NMS, there are isolated instances of re-emergence of symptoms following re-initiation of lithium as monotherapy. Lithium may be a risk factor for antipsychotic-induced NMS; however, this hypothesis has not been confirmed. In many reported cases, confounding factors have been present (e.g., previous history of NMS, high dose therapy). The ability of antipsychotics alone to precipitate NMS and the rarity of the condition further complicate assessment of lithium as a risk factor.
Lofexidine: (Major) Monitor for excessive hypotension and sedation during coadministration of lofexidine and molindone. Lofexidine can potentiate the effects of CNS depressants.
LORazepam: (Moderate) Consistent with the pharmacology of molindone, additive effects may occur with other CNS active drugs such as anticonvulsants. In addition, seizures have been reported during the use of molindone, which is of particular significance in patients with a seizure disorder receiving anticonvulsants. Adequate dosages of anticonvulsants should be continued when molindone is added; patients should be monitored for clinical evidence of loss of seizure control or the need for dosage adjustments of either molindone or the anticonvulsant.
Loxapine: (Major) Close monitoring is advisable during concurrent use of molindone with other antipsychotics. Because molindone shares certain pharmacological properties with other antipsychotics, additive cardiac effects (e.g., hypotension), CNS effects (e.g., drowsiness), or anticholinergic effects (e.g., constipation, xerostomia) may occur. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
Lumateperone: (Moderate) Coadministration of antipsychotics, such as lumateperone and molindone, may increase the risk of adverse effects such as drowsiness, dizziness, orthostatic hypotension, anticholinergic effects, extrapyramidal symptoms, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, or seizures. Although the incidence of tardive dyskinesia from antipsychotic combinations has not been established and data are very limited, the risk may be increased during combined use versus use of an antipsychotic alone.
Lurasidone: (Major) Similar to other antipsychotics, lurasidone administration has been associated with drowsiness, dizziness, orthostatic hypotension, extrapyramidal symptoms, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, and seizures. The risk of these adverse effects may be increased during concurrent use of lurasidone with other antipsychotics. The likelihood of these pharmacodynamic interactions varies based upon the individual properties of the co-administered antipsychotic agent. Although the incidence of tardive dyskinesia from combination antipsychotic therapy has not been established and data are very limited, the risk appears to be increased during use of a conventional and atypical antipsychotic versus use of a conventional antipsychotic alone.
Meclizine: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating h1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including molindone.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists like meperidine with molindone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with molindone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Meprobamate: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including molindone. Caution is advisable during concurrent use.
Metaxalone: (Moderate) Simultaneous use of skeletal muscle relaxants and other CNS depressants, such as molindone, can increase CNS depression. In addition, antipsychotics are associated with anticholinergic effects; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use of molindone and other drugs having anticholinergic activity. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
Methadone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists like methadone with molindone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with molindone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Methamphetamine: (Major) Concurrent use of antipsychotics and amphetamines should generally be avoided. Antipsychotics and amphetamines may interact pharmacodynamically to diminish the therapeutic effects of either agent through opposing effects on dopamine. Amphetamines are thought to block central dopamine reuptake, which has the potential to exacerbate psychosis, and antipsychotics, which are central dopamine antagonists, may diminish the effectiveness of amphetamines.
Methenamine; Sodium Acid Phosphate; Methylene Blue; Hyoscyamine: (Moderate) Antipsychotics are associated with anticholinergic effects; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use of molindone and other drugs having anticholinergic activity such as antimuscarinics. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may also occur.
Methocarbamol: (Moderate) Molindone may cause central nervous system (CNS) depression thereby having additive effects with other drugs that can cause CNS depression such as methocarbamol. Caution is advisable during concurrent use.
Methscopolamine: (Moderate) Antipsychotics are associated with anticholinergic effects; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use of molindone and other drugs having anticholinergic activity such as antimuscarinics. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may also occur.
Methsuximide: (Moderate) Consistent with the pharmacology of molindone, additive effects may occur with other CNS active drugs such as anticonvulsants. In addition, seizures have been reported during the use of molindone, which is of particular significance in patients with a seizure disorder receiving anticonvulsants. Adequate dosages of anticonvulsants should be continued when molindone is added; patients should be monitored for clinical evidence of loss of seizure control or the need for dosage adjustments of either molindone or the anticonvulsant.
Metoclopramide: (Contraindicated) Avoid metoclopramide in patients receiving molindone. There is a potential for additive effects, including increased frequency and severity of tardive dyskinesia (TD), other extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS), and neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS). Some manufacturer labels for metoclopramide contraindicate the use of these drugs together, while others state avoidance is necessary. If these agents must be used together, monitor closely for movement disorders and additive CNS effects. There also may be additive sedation. Discontinue these medications at the first signs of dyskinesia.
metyraPONE: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as molindone, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
metyroSINE: (Moderate) The extrapyramidal effects of molindone can be increased by concomitant administration of metyrosine.
Minocycline: (Major) The tablet formulation of molindone contains calcium sulfate as an excipient and the calcium ions may interfere with the absorption of tetracyclines. It may be advisable to consider an alternative to tetracycline treatment during molindone administration.
Mirtazapine: (Moderate) Molindone may cause central nervous system (CNS) depression thereby having additive effects with other drugs that can cause CNS depression such as mirtazapine. Caution is advisable during concurrent use.
Morphine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists like morphine with molindone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with molindone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Nafarelin: (Moderate) Antipsychotics may cause hyperprolactinemia and should not be administered concomitantly with nafarelin since hyperprolactinemia down-regulates the number of pituitary GnRH receptors.
Nalbuphine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nalbuphine with other CNS depressants, such as molindone, can potentiate the effects of nalbuphine on respiratory depression, CNS depression, and sedation.
Neostigmine; Glycopyrrolate: (Moderate) Antipsychotics are associated with anticholinergic effects; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use of molindone and other drugs having anticholinergic activity such as antimuscarinics. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may also occur.
Non-Ionic Contrast Media: (Major) Molindone lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before myelography and should not be resumed for at least 24 hours postprocedure.
Nortriptyline: (Moderate) Antipsychotics are associated with anticholinergic effects; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use of molindone and other drugs having anticholinergic activity such as tricyclic antidepressants. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may also occur.
OLANZapine: (Major) Close monitoring is advisable during concurrent use of molindone with other antipsychotics. Because molindone shares certain pharmacological properties with other antipsychotics, additive cardiac effects (e.g., hypotension), CNS effects (e.g., drowsiness), anticholinergic effects (e.g., constipation, xerostomia), extrapyramidal effects, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, or seizures may occur. The likelihood of these pharmacodynamic interactions varies based upon the individual properties of the co-administered antipsychotic agent. Although the incidence of tardive dyskinesia from combination antipsychotic therapy has not been established and data are very limited, the risk appears to be increased during use of a conventional and atypical antipsychotic versus use of a conventional antipsychotic alone.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Major) Close monitoring is advisable during concurrent use of molindone with other antipsychotics. Because molindone shares certain pharmacological properties with other antipsychotics, additive cardiac effects (e.g., hypotension), CNS effects (e.g., drowsiness), anticholinergic effects (e.g., constipation, xerostomia), extrapyramidal effects, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, or seizures may occur. The likelihood of these pharmacodynamic interactions varies based upon the individual properties of the co-administered antipsychotic agent. Although the incidence of tardive dyskinesia from combination antipsychotic therapy has not been established and data are very limited, the risk appears to be increased during use of a conventional and atypical antipsychotic versus use of a conventional antipsychotic alone.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Major) Close monitoring is advisable during concurrent use of molindone with other antipsychotics. Because molindone shares certain pharmacological properties with other antipsychotics, additive cardiac effects (e.g., hypotension), CNS effects (e.g., drowsiness), anticholinergic effects (e.g., constipation, xerostomia), extrapyramidal effects, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, or seizures may occur. The likelihood of these pharmacodynamic interactions varies based upon the individual properties of the co-administered antipsychotic agent. Although the incidence of tardive dyskinesia from combination antipsychotic therapy has not been established and data are very limited, the risk appears to be increased during use of a conventional and atypical antipsychotic versus use of a conventional antipsychotic alone.
Oliceridine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists like oliceridine with molindone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with molindone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Omadacycline: (Major) The tablet formulation of molindone contains calcium sulfate as an excipient and the calcium ions may interfere with the absorption of tetracyclines. It may be advisable to consider an alternative to tetracycline treatment during molindone administration.
Opicapone: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, molindone and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Simultaneous use of skeletal muscle relaxants and other CNS depressants, such as molindone, can increase CNS depression. In addition, antipsychotics are associated with anticholinergic effects; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use of molindone and other drugs having anticholinergic activity. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
OXcarbazepine: (Moderate) Consistent with the pharmacology of molindone, additive effects may occur with other CNS active drugs such as anticonvulsants. In addition, seizures have been reported during the use of molindone, which is of particular significance in patients with a seizure disorder receiving anticonvulsants. Adequate dosages of anticonvulsants should be continued when molindone is added; patients should be monitored for clinical evidence of loss of seizure control or the need for dosage adjustments of either molindone or the anticonvulsant.
oxyBUTYnin: (Moderate) Antipsychotics are associated with anticholinergic effects; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use of molindone and other drugs having anticholinergic activity such as antimuscarinics. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may also occur.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists like oxycodone with molindone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with molindone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
oxyMORphone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists like oxymorphone with molindone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with molindone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Paliperidone: (Major) Coadministration of antipsychotics, including molindone and paliperidone, should be avoided if possible. Additive adverse effects including hypotension, drowsiness, anticholinergic effects (e.g., constipation, xerostomia), extrapyramidal symptoms, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, or seizures may occur. Although the incidence of tardive dyskinesia from combination antipsychotic therapy has not been established and data are very limited, the risk appears to be increased during use of a conventional and atypical antipsychotic versus use of a conventional antipsychotic alone.
Pentazocine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of pentazocine with other CNS depressants, such as molindone, can potentiate respiratory depression, CNS depression, and sedation.
PENTobarbital: (Moderate) Consistent with the pharmacology of molindone, additive effects may occur with other CNS active drugs such as anticonvulsants. In addition, seizures have been reported during the use of molindone, which is of particular significance in patients with a seizure disorder receiving anticonvulsants. Adequate dosages of anticonvulsants should be continued when molindone is added; patients should be monitored for clinical evidence of loss of seizure control or the need for dosage adjustments of either molindone or the anticonvulsant.
Perampanel: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as molindone. In addition, seizures have been reported during the use of molindone which is of particular significance in patients with a seizure disorder receiving anticonvulsants.
Perphenazine: (Major) Close monitoring is advisable during concurrent use of molindone with other antipsychotics. Because molindone shares certain pharmacological properties with other antipsychotics, additive cardiac effects (e.g., hypotension), CNS effects (e.g., drowsiness), or anticholinergic effects (e.g., constipation, xerostomia) may occur. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Major) Close monitoring is advisable during concurrent use of molindone with other antipsychotics. Because molindone shares certain pharmacological properties with other antipsychotics, additive cardiac effects (e.g., hypotension), CNS effects (e.g., drowsiness), or anticholinergic effects (e.g., constipation, xerostomia) may occur. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. (Moderate) Antipsychotics are associated with anticholinergic effects; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use of molindone and other drugs having anticholinergic activity such as tricyclic antidepressants. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may also occur.
PHENobarbital: (Moderate) Consistent with the pharmacology of molindone, additive effects may occur with other CNS active drugs such as anticonvulsants. In addition, seizures have been reported during the use of molindone, which is of particular significance in patients with a seizure disorder receiving anticonvulsants. Adequate dosages of anticonvulsants should be continued when molindone is added; patients should be monitored for clinical evidence of loss of seizure control or the need for dosage adjustments of either molindone or the anticonvulsant.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Moderate) Antipsychotics are associated with anticholinergic effects; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use of molindone and other drugs having anticholinergic activity such as antimuscarinics. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may also occur. (Moderate) Consistent with the pharmacology of molindone, additive effects may occur with other CNS active drugs such as anticonvulsants. In addition, seizures have been reported during the use of molindone, which is of particular significance in patients with a seizure disorder receiving anticonvulsants. Adequate dosages of anticonvulsants should be continued when molindone is added; patients should be monitored for clinical evidence of loss of seizure control or the need for dosage adjustments of either molindone or the anticonvulsant.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Moderate) Consistent with the pharmacology of molindone, additive effects may occur with other CNS active drugs such as anticonvulsants. In addition, seizures have been reported during the use of molindone, which is of particular significance in patients with a seizure disorder receiving anticonvulsants. Adequate dosages of anticonvulsants should be continued when molindone is added; patients should be monitored for clinical evidence of loss of seizure control or the need for dosage adjustments of either molindone or the anticonvulsant.
Phenytoin: (Major) The oral absorption of phenytoin may be reduced by the Moban brand of molindone which contains calcium ions. Calcium products may form complexes with phenytoin that are nonabsorbable. Consistent with the pharmacology of molindone, additive effects may occur with other CNS active drugs such as anticonvulsants. In addition, seizures have been reported during the use of molindone, which is of particular significance in patients with a seizure disorder receiving anticonvulsants. Adequate dosages of anticonvulsants should be continued when molindone is added; patients should be monitored for clinical evidence of loss of seizure control or the need for dosage adjustments of either molindone or the anticonvulsant.
Pimozide: (Major) Concurrent use of pimozide with molindone may increase the risk of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, dizziness, orthostatic hypotension, extrapyramidal symptoms, or seizures.
Pramipexole: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, molindone and dopamine agonists may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic as an alternative to molindone. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Pregabalin: (Moderate) Initiate pregabalin at the lowest recommended dose and monitor patients for symptoms of sedation and somnolence during coadministration of pregabalin and molindone. Concomitant use of pregabalin with molindone may cause additive CNS depression. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Primidone: (Moderate) Consistent with the pharmacology of molindone, additive effects may occur with other CNS active drugs such as anticonvulsants. In addition, seizures have been reported during the use of molindone, which is of particular significance in patients with a seizure disorder receiving anticonvulsants. Adequate dosages of anticonvulsants should be continued when molindone is added; patients should be monitored for clinical evidence of loss of seizure control or the need for dosage adjustments of either molindone or the anticonvulsant.
Prochlorperazine: (Major) Close monitoring is advisable during concurrent use of molindone with other antipsychotics. Because molindone shares certain pharmacological properties with other antipsychotics, additive cardiac effects (e.g., hypotension), CNS effects (e.g., drowsiness), or anticholinergic effects (e.g., constipation, xerostomia) may occur. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
Promethazine: (Moderate) Co-administration of promethazine with molindone may increase the risk of adverse effects such as drowsiness, dizziness, orthostatic hypotension, anticholinergic effects, extrapyramidal symptoms, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, or seizures. The likelihood of these pharmacodynamic interactions varies based upon the individual properties of the co-administered antipsychotic agent. Although the incidence of tardive dyskinesia from these combinations has not been established and data are very limited, the risk may be increased during combined use versus use of an antipsychotic alone.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Co-administration of promethazine with molindone may increase the risk of adverse effects such as drowsiness, dizziness, orthostatic hypotension, anticholinergic effects, extrapyramidal symptoms, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, or seizures. The likelihood of these pharmacodynamic interactions varies based upon the individual properties of the co-administered antipsychotic agent. Although the incidence of tardive dyskinesia from these combinations has not been established and data are very limited, the risk may be increased during combined use versus use of an antipsychotic alone.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Co-administration of promethazine with molindone may increase the risk of adverse effects such as drowsiness, dizziness, orthostatic hypotension, anticholinergic effects, extrapyramidal symptoms, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, or seizures. The likelihood of these pharmacodynamic interactions varies based upon the individual properties of the co-administered antipsychotic agent. Although the incidence of tardive dyskinesia from these combinations has not been established and data are very limited, the risk may be increased during combined use versus use of an antipsychotic alone.
Protriptyline: (Moderate) Antipsychotics are associated with anticholinergic effects; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use of molindone and other drugs having anticholinergic activity such as tricyclic antidepressants. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may also occur.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating h1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including molindone.
Quazepam: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of quazepam with CNS-depressant drugs, such as antipsychotics, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent.
QUEtiapine: (Major) Close monitoring is advisable during concurrent use of molindone with other antipsychotics. Because molindone shares certain pharmacological properties with other antipsychotics, additive cardiac effects (e.g., hypotension), CNS effects (e.g., drowsiness), anticholinergic effects (e.g., constipation, xerostomia), extrapyramidal effects, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, or seizures may occur. The likelihood of these pharmacodynamic interactions varies based upon the individual properties of the co-administered antipsychotic agent. Although the incidence of tardive dyskinesia from combination antipsychotic therapy has not been established and data are very limited, the risk appears to be increased during use of a conventional and atypical antipsychotic versus use of a conventional antipsychotic alone.
Rasagiline: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, molindone and rasagiline may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic as an alternative to loxapine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Remifentanil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists like remifentanil with molindone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with molindone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
risperiDONE: (Major) Co-administration of risperidone with molindone may increase the risk of adverse effects such as drowsiness, dizziness, orthostatic hypotension, anticholinergic effects, extrapyramidal symptoms, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, or seizures. Although the incidence of tardive dyskinesia from combination antipsychotic therapy has not been established and data are very limited, the risk appears to be increased during use of a conventional and atypical antipsychotic versus use of a conventional antipsychotic alone.
rOPINIRole: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, molindone and dopamine agonists may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic as an alternative to molindone. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Rotigotine: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, molindone and rotigotine may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic as an alternative to molindone. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors. In addition, coadministration may result in additive sedation.
Rufinamide: (Moderate) Consistent with the pharmacology of molindone, additive effects may occur with other CNS active drugs such as anticonvulsants. In addition, seizures have been reported during the use of molindone, which is of particular significance in patients with a seizure disorder receiving anticonvulsants. Adequate dosages of anticonvulsants should be continued when molindone is added; patients should be monitored for clinical evidence of loss of seizure control or the need for dosage adjustments of either molindone or the anticonvulsant.
Safinamide: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, safinamide and molindone may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic as an alternative to molindone. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Sarecycline: (Major) The tablet formulation of molindone contains calcium sulfate as an excipient and the calcium ions may interfere with the absorption of tetracyclines. It may be advisable to consider an alternative to tetracycline treatment during molindone administration.
Scopolamine: (Moderate) Antipsychotics are associated with anticholinergic effects; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use of molindone and other drugs having anticholinergic activity such as antimuscarinics. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may also occur.
Sedating H1-blockers: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating h1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including molindone.
Selegiline: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, selegiline and molindone may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. If possible, avoid concurrent use and consider an atypical antipsychotic as an alternative to molindone. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Skeletal Muscle Relaxants: (Moderate) Simultaneous use of skeletal muscle relaxants and other CNS depressants, such as molindone, can increase CNS depression. In addition, antipsychotics are associated with anticholinergic effects; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use of molindone and other drugs having anticholinergic activity. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
Stiripentol: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of stiripentol and molindone. CNS depressants can potentiate the effects of stiripentol.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists like sufentanil with molindone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with molindone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Tapentadol: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists like tapentadol with molindone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with molindone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Tetrabenazine: (Major) Concurrent use of molindone and tetrabenazine should generally be avoided since the risk of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, dizziness, orthostatic hypotension, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, or extrapyramidal symptoms may be increased.
Tetracycline: (Major) The tablet formulation of molindone contains calcium sulfate as an excipient and the calcium ions may interfere with the absorption of tetracyclines. It may be advisable to consider an alternative to tetracycline treatment during molindone administration.
Tetracyclines: (Major) The tablet formulation of molindone contains calcium sulfate as an excipient and the calcium ions may interfere with the absorption of tetracyclines. It may be advisable to consider an alternative to tetracycline treatment during molindone administration.
Thalidomide: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of thalidomide with antipsychotics due to the potential for additive sedative effects.
Thioridazine: (Major) Close monitoring is advisable during concurrent use of molindone with other antipsychotics. Because molindone shares certain pharmacological properties with other antipsychotics, additive cardiac effects (e.g., hypotension), CNS effects (e.g., drowsiness), or anticholinergic effects (e.g., constipation, xerostomia) may occur. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
Thiothixene: (Major) Close monitoring is advisable during concurrent use of molindone with other antipsychotics. Because molindone shares certain pharmacological properties with other antipsychotics, additive cardiac effects (e.g., hypotension), CNS effects (e.g., drowsiness), or anticholinergic effects (e.g., constipation, xerostomia) may occur. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
tiaGABine: (Moderate) Consistent with the pharmacology of molindone, additive effects may occur with other CNS active drugs such as anticonvulsants. In addition, seizures have been reported during the use of molindone, which is of particular significance in patients with a seizure disorder receiving anticonvulsants. Adequate dosages of anticonvulsants should be continued when molindone is added; patients should be monitored for clinical evidence of loss of seizure control or the need for dosage adjustments of either molindone or the anticonvulsant.
tiZANidine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and antipsychotics like molindone can cause additive CNS depression.
Tolcapone: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, molindone and COMT inhibitors may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Topiramate: (Moderate) Consistent with the pharmacology of molindone, additive effects may occur with other CNS active drugs such as anticonvulsants. In addition, seizures have been reported during the use of molindone, which is of particular significance in patients with a seizure disorder receiving anticonvulsants. Adequate dosages of anticonvulsants should be continued when molindone is added; patients should be monitored for clinical evidence of loss of seizure control or the need for dosage adjustments of either molindone or the anticonvulsant.
Tradipitant: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
traMADol: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists like tramadol with molindone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with molindone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Also, concomitant use of tramadol increases the seizure risk in patients taking molindone.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists like tramadol with molindone may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with molindone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations. Also, concomitant use of tramadol increases the seizure risk in patients taking molindone.
traZODone: (Moderate) Molindone may cause central nervous system (CNS) depression thereby having additive effects with other drugs that can cause CNS depression such as trazodone. Caution is advisable during concurrent use.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Moderate) Antipsychotics are associated with anticholinergic effects; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use of molindone and other drugs having anticholinergic activity such as tricyclic antidepressants. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may also occur.
Trifluoperazine: (Major) Close monitoring is advisable during concurrent use of molindone with other antipsychotics. Because molindone shares certain pharmacological properties with other antipsychotics, additive cardiac effects (e.g., hypotension), CNS effects (e.g., drowsiness), anticholinergic effects (e.g., constipation, xerostomia), extrapyramidal effects, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, or seizures may occur. The likelihood of these pharmacodynamic interactions varies based upon the individual properties of the co-administered antipsychotic agent. Although the incidence of tardive dyskinesia from combination antipsychotic therapy has not been established and data are very limited, the risk appears to be increased during use of a conventional and atypical antipsychotic versus use of a conventional antipsychotic alone.
Trihexyphenidyl: (Moderate) Antipsychotics are associated with anticholinergic effects; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use of molindone and other drugs having anticholinergic activity such as antimuscarinics. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may also occur.
Trimipramine: (Moderate) Antipsychotics are associated with anticholinergic effects; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use of molindone and other drugs having anticholinergic activity such as tricyclic antidepressants. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may also occur.
Triprolidine: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating h1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including molindone.
Triptorelin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of triptorelin with molindone due to the risk of reduced efficacy of triptorelin. Molindone can cause hyperprolactinemia, which reduces the number of pituitary gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) receptors; triptorelin is a GnRH analog.
Valproic Acid, Divalproex Sodium: (Moderate) Consistent with the pharmacology of molindone, additive effects may occur with other CNS active drugs such as anticonvulsants. In addition, seizures have been reported during the use of molindone, which is of particular significance in patients with a seizure disorder receiving anticonvulsants. Adequate dosages of anticonvulsants should be continued when molindone is added; patients should be monitored for clinical evidence of loss of seizure control or the need for dosage adjustments of either molindone or the anticonvulsant.
Vigabatrin: (Moderate) Consistent with the pharmacology of molindone, additive effects may occur with other CNS active drugs such as anticonvulsants. In addition, seizures have been reported during the use of molindone, which is of particular significance in patients with a seizure disorder receiving anticonvulsants. Adequate dosages of anticonvulsants should be continued when molindone is added; patients should be monitored for clinical evidence of loss of seizure control or the need for dosage adjustments of either molindone or the anticonvulsant.
Zaleplon: (Moderate) Consistent with the pharmacology of molindone, additive central nervous system (CNS) effects may occur with other CNS active drugs such as zaleplon. Caution is advisable during concurrent use.
Ziconotide: (Moderate) Due to potentially additive effects, dosage adjustments may be necessary if ziconotide is used with a drug that has CNS depressant effects such as molindone. Coadministration of CNS depressants may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Ziprasidone: (Major) Close monitoring is advisable during concurrent use of molindone with other antipsychotics. Because molindone shares certain pharmacological properties with other antipsychotics, additive cardiac effects (e.g., hypotension), CNS effects (e.g., drowsiness), or anticholinergic effects (e.g., constipation, xerostomia) may occur. Although the incidence of tardive dyskinesia from combination antipsychotic therapy has not been established and data are very limited, the risk appears to be increased during use of a conventional and atypical antipsychotic versus use of a conventional antipsychotic alone.
Zolpidem: (Moderate) Additive CNS-depressant effects may occur with zolpidem and molindone. In addition, sleep-related behaviors, such as sleep-driving, are more likely to occur during concurrent use of zolpidem and other CNS depressants than with zolpidem alone.
Zonisamide: (Moderate) Consistent with the pharmacology of molindone, additive effects may occur with other CNS active drugs such as anticonvulsants. In addition, seizures have been reported during the use of molindone, which is of particular significance in patients with a seizure disorder receiving anticonvulsants. Adequate dosages of anticonvulsants should be continued when molindone is added; patients should be monitored for clinical evidence of loss of seizure control or the need for dosage adjustments of either molindone or the anticonvulsant. In addition, zonisamide may cause decreased sweating (oligohidrosis), elevated body temperature (hyperthermia), heat intolerance, or heat stroke. The manufacturer recommends caution in using concurrent drug therapies that may predispose patients to heat-related disorders such as antipsychotics. Monitor patients for heat intolerance, decreased sweating, or increased body temperature if zonisamide is used with any of these agents.
Zuranolone: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, eosinophilia, fever, hemolytic anemia, leukocytosis, leukopenia, neutropenia, pancytopenia, purpura, thrombocytopenia
    General Information
    Clinical trial data and post-marketing reports indicate that leukopenia, neutropenia, and agranulocytosis have occurred during the use of antipsychotic agents. Leukopenia and leukocytosis have been reported rarely during molindone administration. Alterations in red blood cells have not been clinically significant. Other hematologic abnormalities that have been associated with use of antipsychotics include eosinophilia, thrombocytopenia, thrombocytopenic purpura, pancytopenia, aplastic anemia, and hemolytic anemia. Patients with a history of drug-induced leukopenia or neutropenia or history of clinically significant low white blood cell (WBC) count should have their complete blood count (CBC) monitored regularly during the first few months of therapy, and molindone should be discontinued in such patients at the first sign of a decline in WBC in the absence of an identifiable cause. Patients with neutropenia should be carefully monitored for fever or other symptoms or signs of infection and treated promptly if such symptoms or signs occur. Molindone should be discontinued in patients who develop severe neutropenia as noted by an absolute neutrophil count (ANC) less than 1000/mm3.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      agranulocytosis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      leukopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      neutropenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      leukocytosis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      aplastic anemia
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      eosinophilia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hemolytic anemia
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      pancytopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      purpura
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    akathisia, akinesia, dystonic reaction, pseudoparkinsonism, tremor
    General Information
    Extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) can occur during treatment with molindone and appear to be the result of dopamine (D2-receptor) blockade. Dystonic reaction is a potential EPS effect of all antipsychotics, and may occur in susceptible individuals during the first few days of treatment. This effect is observed more commonly in males, younger age groups, and with high potency antipsychotics. Dystonic reactions may manifest as torticollis with or without throat tightness, difficulty swallowing or breathing, oculogyric crisis, trismus, or protrusion of the tongue. Pseudoparkinsonism may occur 1—2 weeks after initiation of antipsychotic therapy and is more common in elderly patients. Akathisia may develop several days to weeks into therapy and usually responds to dosage reduction or concomitant use of a benzodiazepine or a beta-blocker. In some patients, an alternate antipsychotic may be necessary. Symptoms of pseudoparkinsonism reported during molindone administration include akinesia and tremor.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      akathisia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      akinesia
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      dystonic reaction
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      pseudoparkinsonism
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      tremor
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    neuroleptic malignant syndrome
    General Information
    A potentially fatal symptom complex referred to as neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) has occurred in association with administration of antipsychotics, including molindone. NMS is characterized by hyperpyrexia, severe extrapyramidal dysfunction, alterations in consciousness, altered mental status, and autonomic instability (tachycardia, change in blood pressure, diaphoresis). Increased serum creatine phosphokinase (CPK), acute renal failure, and leukocytosis may also occur. The cause of NMS is not completely understood; however, dopamine receptor blockade is one of the mechanisms by which NMS is thought to occur. A primary risk factor for developing NMS appears to be the initiation or increase in dose of an antipsychotic. High potency and depot antipsychotics carry the greatest risk. Environmental risk factors include conditions that inhibit heat dissipation such as an elevated ambient room temperature, prolonged heat exposure, the use of patient restraints, or dehydration. NMS occurs more frequently in young adults, which is most likely the result of age of first exposure rather than an age-related risk. NMS occurs more frequently in men, which is thought to be related to the higher likelihood of male versus female exposure to the causative agent. Risk factors for recurrent NMS include a personal history of NMS, increasing age, and certain medical co-morbidities (e.g., electrolyte imbalances, dehydration). Molindone should be immediately discontinued and appropriate supportive therapy initiated as soon as symptoms of NMS are discovered.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      neuroleptic malignant syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    tardive dyskinesia
    General Information
    Tardive dyskinesia (TD) is a syndrome of potentially irreversible, involuntary, dyskinetic movements that may develop during treatment with antipsychotic drugs. Involuntary orofacial movements (tongue, mouth, jaw, eyelids, or face) or choreoathetoid movements in the extremities may occur. Factors associated with an increased risk of TD include an age above 55 years, female gender, white or African ethnicity, presence of a mood disorder, intellectual disability, CNS injury, prior or current akathisia, significant parkinsonism, or acute dystonic reaction. The rate of TD in adults treated with a first generation antipsychotic appears to be at least 3 times that observed with second generation antipsychotics. The incidence of TD may be higher in patients with bipolar disorder than with schizophrenia. It is believed that the likelihood of developing TD increases with prolonged treatment and cumulative doses. Less commonly, it can also develop after short periods of time and with low dosages or may go undetected until the medication is stopped. The use of antipsychotics may mask signs and symptoms of TD; however, TD may also remit partially or completely if the antipsychotic is withdrawn. The effect that symptomatic suppression has upon the long-term course of TD is unknown. In people who require chronic treatment with molindone, the lowest possible dose and the shortest duration of treatment should be used. All patients receiving antipsychotics (including molindone) should undergo routine monitoring for movement disorders (e.g., AIMS or DISCUS assessment) at 3- to 6-month intervals. If signs or symptoms of TD develop, discontinuation of molindone therapy should be considered.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      tardive dyskinesia
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    depression, drowsiness, euphoria, seizures
    General Information
    Drowsiness may occur during initial treatment with molindone; tolerance to this adverse effect usually develops with continued therapy or dose reduction. Other centrally-mediated effects reported less frequently include depression, hyperactivity, and euphoria. Seizures have been reported rarely. Because drowsiness is a frequent side effect of molindone, patients should be advised to use caution when driving, operating machinery, or performing other tasks that require mental alertness until they know how molindone affects them.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      depression
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      euphoria
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      seizures
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    blurred vision, constipation, hypersalivation, nausea, priapism, urinary retention, xerostomia
    General Information
    Autonomic nervous system effects of molindone may include blurred vision, nausea, xerostomia, hypersalivation, urinary retention, and constipation. These effects can be enhanced by the concomitant use of anticholinergic drugs (e.g., cogentin, trihexyphenidyl), some antidepressants, or other agents with anticholinergic properties. One patient receiving molindone developed priapism which required surgery, and he subsequently experienced residual erectile dysfunction.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      blurred vision
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypersalivation
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      urinary retention
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      priapism
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes
    General Information
    Significant alternations in liver function (unspecified) have been reported rarely during molindone administration. It is advisable to consider discontinuation of molindone if signs or symptoms of liver impairment (e.g., elevated hepatic enzymes) become apparent during treatment with the drug.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hypotension
    General Information
    Transient, non-specific wave changes on ECG have been reported during administration of molindone, but association with a clinical syndrome has not been established. In rare instances, significant hypotension due to molindone has occurred. Monitoring of orthostatic vital signs should be considered in patients for whom hypotension is a concern.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    rash (unspecified)
    General Information
    Skin rash (unspecified) has been reported rarely during treatment with molindone. According to the manufacturer, these reactions are likely allergic in origin.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    amenorrhea, galactorrhea, gynecomastia, hyperprolactinemia, libido increase
    General Information
    Central dopamine blockade by antipsychotics can lead to endocrine changes. Some endocrine effects may be the result of antipsychotic-induced hyperprolactinemia such as galactorrhea, amenorrhea, and gynecomastia which have been reported infrequently during molindone administration. Resumption of menses in previously amenorrheic women has been reported; initial heavy menses may occur. Libido increase has been noted in some patients. Alterations in thyroid function have not been significant. Unlike many other antipsychotics, changes in blood glucose have not been considered clinically significant.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      amenorrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      galactorrhea
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      gynecomastia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      libido increase
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      hyperprolactinemia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    weight gain, weight loss
    General Information
    Weight gain is generally considered a class effect of antipsychotics and can be significant; however, excessive weight gain has not occurred with molindone. Both weight gain and weight loss in the direction of normal or ideal weight have been reported.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      weight gain
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      weight loss
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    stroke
    General Information
    Antipsychotics, including molindone, are not FDA approved for the treatment of dementia-related psychosis in geriatric patients. In April 2005, the FDA mandated that all manufacturers of atypical antipsychotics(e.g., risperidone, olanzapine) add a boxed warning to the labeling indicating that increased death rates (1.6—1.7 times that of placebo) have been noted in this patient population receiving atypical antipsychotics. Death typically occurred due to heart failure, sudden death, or infections (primarily pneumonia). In June 2008, this warning was expanded to include all conventional antipsychotics following an FDA review of data which included two population-based, retrospective cohort studies evaluating the risk of death in elderly patients with dementia receiving conventional antipsychotics. One of the studies found that those receiving atypical antipsychotics had an increase in mortality compared to the placebo group, and that those receiving conventional antipsychotics had a marginally higher risk of death compared to the atypical antipsychotic group. The causes of death were not available. Investigators from a separate study reported that the risk of death (all cause mortality) in the conventional antipsychotic group was comparable to and possibly greater than the risk of death in the atypical antipsychotic group. Deaths due to cancer and cardiac disease carried the highest relative risk. In addition, a significantly increased incidence of cerebrovascular events (e.g., stroke, transient ischemic attack), including fatalities, have been reported in the elderly with dementia-related psychosis receiving some atypical antipsychotics. The FDA considers elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis to be at an increased risk for death when treated with any antipsychotic and advises healthcare professionals to discuss this risk with patients and/or their caregivers if treatment is deemed necessary.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      stroke
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    dysphagia
    General Information
    Dysphagia, with possible aspiration of gastric contents, can occur during antipsychotic use. This adverse effect may increase the incidence of aspiration pneumonia in certain patient populations, such as elderly patients with advanced Alzheimer's disease or other dementia. Patients with dysphagia or who are at risk for aspiration should be closely monitored while receiving molindone.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dysphagia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    hyperthermia, hypothermia
    General Information
    Antipsychotics have been reported to disrupt the body's ability to reduce core body temperature presumably through effects in the hypothalamus, and they predispose patients to hyperthermia. Patients receiving molindone should be advised of conditions that contribute to an elevation in core body temperature (e.g., strenuous exercise, ambient temperature increase, or dehydration). A less frequently described alteration in thermoregulatory processes reported with both conventional and atypical antipsychotics is hypothermia. Thermoregulation is multi-factorial; however, the dopaminergic system appears to have a primary role, and serotonin may also have modulatory activity (5-HT2a receptors). Most cases of hypothermia associated with antipsychotics have occurred in conjunction with other potential precipitating factors such as hypothyroidism, sepsis, organic brain injury, or environmental temperature. Hypothermia appears to occur more frequently during initiation of antipsychotic therapy or after dose increases.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypothermia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      hyperthermia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    hyponatremia, polydipsia, SIADH, water intoxication
    General Information
    Thirst and polydipsia have occurred during treatment with antipsychotics. Polydipsia may be psychogenic in nature or a result of antipsychotic-induced metabolic complications such as diabetes; therefore, careful evaluation is recommended. Hyponatremia can develop from polydipsia which can progress to water intoxication, with symptoms such as confusion, lethargy, psychosis, and in severe cases, seizures or death. Some data suggest that antipsychotic-induced hyponatremia is most likely the result of syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone (SIADH).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyponatremia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      polydipsia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      SIADH
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      water intoxication
      Severity
      Severe

Description
  Text
  Molindone is an oral dihydroindolone (non-phenothiazine) antipsychotic agent used for the symptomatic management of schizophrenia. Relative to other conventional antipsychotics, molindone has high extrapyramidal effects, low sedative effects, and low anticholinergic effects. Molindone (Moban) was approved by the FDA in 1974.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Dopamine mediates various effects in different portions of the brain. In the mesolimbic tract, a dopamine excess is thought to be responsible for the positive symptoms of schizophrenia. In the mesocortical tract, a reduction in dopamine activity may be responsible for the negative symptoms of schizophrenia. Reduced dopamine activity in the nigrostriatal tract may be related to decreased metabolic activity in the basal ganglia. The exact mechanism of molindone has not been described. However, in general, conventional antipsychotics non-selectively block dopamine (D2) receptors throughout the brain. Through blockade of dopamine in the mesolimbic tract, antipsychotics reduce the positive symptoms of schizophrenia; blockade in the mesocortical and nigrostriatal tracts can worsen negative symptoms and cognitive impairment, and produce extrapyramidal effects.
 
Antipsychotic-induced dopamine receptor blockade in the tuberoinfundibular tract results in prolactin release. This receptor blockade can cause hyperprolactinemia, which can lead to adverse effects such as weight gain and menstrual irregularity. Increases in prolactin are reversible upon drug withdrawal.
 
Dopamine blockade in the chemoreceptor trigger zone accounts for the antiemetic effects of many antipsychotics. Molindone exhibits an antiemetic effect in animals; a similar effect is possible in humans. The drug also possesses weak anticholinergic and alpha-adrenergic receptor blocking effects. Blockade of alpha1-adrenergic receptors produces sedation, muscle relaxation, and cardiovascular effects such as hypotension.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Molindone is rapidly absorbed and metabolized following oral administration; however, the bioavailability is unclear. After oral administration of the tablet, peak plasma concentrations occur in 1.5 hours. Pharmacological effects persist for 24 to 36 hours following a single dose.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Pharmacokinetic data are not available for patients with hepatic impairment.
  Text
  Molindone is administered orally. Protein binding is not clinically significant. Molindone is extensively metabolized. There are 36 known metabolites; however, the activity of these metabolites has not been described. The half-life is 1.5 hours. Less than 2 to 3% of a dose is excreted in urine and feces as the parent compound.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 (CYP450) isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP2D6
Molindone is a substrate of CYP2D6.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Tablets
Administer orally. No specific administration instructions apply.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    225 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    225 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    225 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    12 years: 225 mg/day PO.
1 to 11 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
