=== Anagrelide — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 666)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Anagrelide is an oral platelet reducing agent indicated for the treatment of thrombocythemia, secondary to myeloproliferative neoplasms, to reduce the elevated platelet count and the risk of thrombosis and to ameliorate associated symptoms including thrombo-hemorrhagic events.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 2.5 mg/dose PO or 10 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): pleural effusion, pulmonary fibrosis, pulmonary hypertension, rhinitis, sinusitis, anemia, bleeding, ecchymosis, epistaxis, lymphadenopathy, platelet dysfunction, thrombocytopenia, elevated hepatic enzymes, eructation, gi bleeding, pancreatitis, peptic ulcer, amnesia, confusion, depression, drowsiness, hypoesthesia, insomnia, alopecia, amblyopia, arthralgia, chills, dehydration, diplopia, fever

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. bradycardia, cardiac disease, cardiomyopathy, congenital long QT syndrome, coronary artery disease, electrolyte imbalance, females, geriatric, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia...

ANAGRELIDE

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Agrylin

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of thrombocytosis due to myeloproliferative disorders such as essential thrombocythemia, polycythemia vera, or chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML)

Oral dosage
Adults


0.5 mg PO 4 times daily or 1 mg PO twice daily for at least 1 week, then titrate dose to maintain target platelet count below 600,000 cells/microliter, and ideally between 150,000 cells/microliter to 400,000 cells/microliter. Do not increase the dose by more than 0.5 mg/day in any 1 week. Typical dose range is 1.5 to 3 mg/day. The maximum dosage is 2.5 mg/dose or 10 mg/day. Monitor platelet counts every 2 days during the first week of treatment and at least weekly thereafter until the desired maintenance dosage is reached.


Children 7 to 12 years and Adolescents


0.5 mg PO once daily for at least 1 week, then titrate dose to maintain target platelet count below 600,000 cells/microliter, and ideally between 150,000 cells/microliter to 400,000 cells/microliter. Do not increase the dose by more than 0.5 mg/day in any 1 week. Typical dose range is 1.5 to 3 mg/day. The maximum dosage is 2.5 mg/dose or 10 mg/day. Monitor platelet counts every 2 days during the first week of treatment and at least weekly thereafter until the desired maintenance dosage is reached.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

bradycardia, cardiac disease, cardiomyopathy, congenital long QT syndrome, coronary artery disease, electrolyte imbalance, females, geriatric, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, QT prolongation


Avoid use of anagrelide in people with baseline QT prolongation or who have conditions that may increase the risk of QT prolongation or torsade de pointes, including bradycardia, congenital long QT syndrome, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, geriatric adults, females, structural abnormalities that interfere with electrical conduction (e.g., cardiomyopathy, coronary artery disease, ischemic heart disease), or in those who have other additional risk factors for QT prolongation or torsade de pointes. The use of other medications that have been associated with QT prolongation or torsade de pointes may further increase risk. Use anagrelide in individuals with cardiac disease only when the benefits outweigh the risks. Prior to initiation of anagrelide, obtain a cardiovascular examination, including an electrocardiogram (ECG), in all individuals. Monitor for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary during anagrelide therapy. Consider periodic ECG monitoring in individuals with bradyarrhythmias, electrolyte imbalance, or heart failure. Anagrelide is a phosphodiesterase 3 (PDE3) inhibitor, and other drugs that inhibit PDE3 have caused decreased survival when compared with placebo in individuals with NYHA Class III to Class IV congestive heart failure.


cardiopulmonary disease


Evaluate individuals for signs and symptoms of underlying cardiopulmonary disease prior to initiating and during anagrelide therapy. Cases of pulmonary hypertension have been reported in individuals treated with anagrelide.


Child-Pugh class A, Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure


Avoid use of anagrelide in individuals with severe hepatic impairment or hepatic failure (Child-Pugh class C). An initial anagrelide dose reduction and slow titration is required for individuals with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class B). Assess the potential risks and benefits of anagrelide therapy in individuals with mild (Child-Pugh class A) or moderate hepatic impairment before treatment begins. Assess hepatic function before and during anagrelide therapy. Hepatic impairment may increase risk of QTc prolongation with anagrelide; monitor individuals with hepatic impairment for QTc prolongation and other cardiovascular adverse effects. Hepatic metabolism is a major route of anagrelide clearance; exposure to anagrelide is increased 8-fold in individuals with moderate hepatic impairment. Anagrelide use in individuals with severe hepatic impairment has not been studied.


pregnancy


Case reports of anagrelide use during pregnancy have not identified an associated risk of adverse outcomes, major birth defects, or miscarriage. There are no adequate and well-controlled studies with the use of anagrelide during human pregnancy. In animal embryo-fetal studies, delayed development (delayed skeletal ossification and reduced body weight) was observed in rats administered anagrelide during organogenesis at doses substantially higher than the maximum human clinical dose of 10 mg/day. Delay or blockage of parturition, deaths of non-delivering pregnant rats and their fully developed fetuses, and increased mortality in delivered pups were observed in a pre- and post-natal study of anagrelide at doses 58 times that of human clinical doses in female rats. Thrombotic complications associated with thrombocythemia include stroke, deep vein thrombosis, or myocardial infarction. In pregnant women, thrombocythemia is associated with an increased risk of miscarriage, stillbirth, and preeclampsia.


people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk


Counsel people who may become pregnant about the reproductive risk associated with anagrelide. Anagrelide may cause infertility in females. In fertility studies involving female rats that received doses higher than the recommended maximum human dose, anagrelide was associated with increased pre- and post-implantation loss and a reduction in the number of live embryos.


breast-feeding


Avoid breast-feeding during the use of anagrelide and for 1 week after the last dose, due to the potential for serious adverse reactions, such as thrombocytopenia. There is no data on the presence of anagrelide in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production. Anagrelide or its metabolites have been detected in the milk of lactating rats.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Case reports of anagrelide use during pregnancy have not identified an associated risk of adverse outcomes, major birth defects, or miscarriage. There are no adequate and well-controlled studies with the use of anagrelide during human pregnancy. In animal embryo-fetal studies, delayed development (delayed skeletal ossification and reduced body weight) was observed in rats administered anagrelide during organogenesis at doses substantially higher than the maximum human clinical dose of 10 mg/day. Delay or blockage of parturition, deaths of non-delivering pregnant rats and their fully developed fetuses, and increased mortality in delivered pups were observed in a pre- and post-natal study of anagrelide at doses 58 times that of human clinical doses in female rats. Thrombotic complications associated with thrombocythemia include stroke, deep vein thrombosis, or myocardial infarction. In pregnant women, thrombocythemia is associated with an increased risk of miscarriage, stillbirth, and preeclampsia.


Interactions

Abrocitinib: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use with anagrelide is contraindicated during the first 3 months of abrocitinib therapy due to an increased risk of bleeding with thrombocytopenia.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Anagrelide has been shown to inhibit CYP1A2. In theory, coadministration of anagrelide with substrates of CYP1A2, including caffeine, could lead to increases in the serum concentrations of caffeine and, thus, adverse effects. (Moderate) Use caution with the coadministration of aspirin and anagrelide. The coadministration of single or repeated doses of anagrelide and aspirin resulted in greater ex vivo anti-platelet aggregation effects than administration of aspirin alone. In an observational study, the concomitant use of anagrelide and aspirin increased the rate of major hemorrhagic events compared to patients receiving other cytoreductive therapy. Assess the risks and benefits of concomitant aspirin and anagrelide use, particularly in patients at high risk for hemorrhage. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Anagrelide has been shown to inhibit CYP1A2. In theory, coadministration of anagrelide with substrates of CYP1A2, including caffeine, could lead to increases in the serum concentrations of caffeine and, thus, adverse effects. (Moderate) Use caution with the coadministration of aspirin and anagrelide. The coadministration of single or repeated doses of anagrelide and aspirin resulted in greater ex vivo anti-platelet aggregation effects than administration of aspirin alone. In an observational study, the concomitant use of anagrelide and aspirin increased the rate of major hemorrhagic events compared to patients receiving other cytoreductive therapy. Assess the risks and benefits of concomitant aspirin and anagrelide use, particularly in patients at high risk for hemorrhage. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin: (Moderate) Use caution with the coadministration of aspirin and anagrelide. The coadministration of single or repeated doses of anagrelide and aspirin resulted in greater ex vivo anti-platelet aggregation effects than administration of aspirin alone. In an observational study, the concomitant use of anagrelide and aspirin increased the rate of major hemorrhagic events compared to patients receiving other cytoreductive therapy. Assess the risks and benefits of concomitant aspirin and anagrelide use, particularly in patients at high risk for hemorrhage. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Use caution with the coadministration of aspirin and anagrelide. The coadministration of single or repeated doses of anagrelide and aspirin resulted in greater ex vivo anti-platelet aggregation effects than administration of aspirin alone. In an observational study, the concomitant use of anagrelide and aspirin increased the rate of major hemorrhagic events compared to patients receiving other cytoreductive therapy. Assess the risks and benefits of concomitant aspirin and anagrelide use, particularly in patients at high risk for hemorrhage. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Anagrelide has been shown to inhibit CYP1A2. In theory, coadministration of anagrelide with substrates of CYP1A2, including caffeine, could lead to increases in the serum concentrations of caffeine and, thus, adverse effects.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Anagrelide has been shown to inhibit CYP1A2. In theory, coadministration of anagrelide with substrates of CYP1A2, including caffeine, could lead to increases in the serum concentrations of caffeine and, thus, adverse effects.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Anagrelide has been shown to inhibit CYP1A2. In theory, coadministration of anagrelide with substrates of CYP1A2, including caffeine, could lead to increases in the serum concentrations of caffeine and, thus, adverse effects.
Acetaminophen; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Adagrasib: (Major) Concomitant use of adagrasib and anagrelide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ado-Trastuzumab emtansine: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of platelet inhibitors with ado-trastuzumab emtansine is necessary due to reports of severe and sometimes fatal hemorrhage, including intracranial bleeding, with ado-trastuzumab emtansine therapy. Consider additional monitoring when concomitant use is medically necessary. While some patients who experienced bleeding during ado-trastuzumab therapy were also receiving anticoagulation therapy, others had no known additional risk factors.
ADP receptor antagonists: (Moderate) Although anagrelide inhibits platelet aggregation at high doses, there is a potential additive risk for bleeding if anagrelide is given in combination with other agents that effect hemostasis such as ADP receptor antagonists including clopidogrel, prasugrel, ticagrelor, or ticlopidine.
Alfuzosin: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide include alfuzosin.
Alteplase: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and antiplatelet agents is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, consider delaying the initiation of antiplatelet therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Amiodarone: (Major) Concomitant use of amiodarone and anagrelide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Due to the extremely long half-life of amiodarone, a drug interaction is possible for days to weeks after drug discontinuation.
Amisulpride: (Major) Do not use anagrelide with other drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as amisulpride. Torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. Amisulpride causes dose- and concentration- dependent QT prolongation.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Amobarbital: (Moderate) Anagrelide is partially metabolized by CYP1A2. Coadministration of anagrelide with drugs that induce CYP1A2, such as barbiturates, could theoretically increase the elimination of anagrelide and decrease the efficacy of anagrelide.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide include clarithromycin.
Antithrombin III: (Moderate) Although anagrelide inhibits platelet aggregation at high doses, there is a potential additive risk for bleeding if anagrelide is given in combination with other agents that effect hemostasis such as other anticoagulants. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3 to 4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. An in vivo interaction study in humans demonstrated that a single 1 mg dose of anagrelide administered concomitantly with a single dose of aspirin 900 mg was well tolerated; there was no effect on bleeding time, PT, or PTT. However, aspirin alone produced a marked inhibition of platelet aggregation ex vivo; anagrelide enhanced the platelet inhibition effects of aspirin slightly. Patients may be at increased risk of bleeding if anagrelide is administered with aspirin.
Antithymocyte Globulin: (Moderate) An increased risk of bleeding may occur when platelet inhibitors are used with agents that cause clinically significant thrombocytopenia, such as antithymocyte globulin. Platelet inhibitors should be used cautiously in patients with thrombocytopenia following the administration of antithymocyte globulin or other drugs that cause significant thrombocytopenia due to the increased risk of bleeding.
Apixaban: (Major) The concomitant use of apixaban and platelet inhibitors (e.g, aspirin) may increase the risk of bleeding. In the ARISTOTLE trial (comparative trial of apixaban and warfarin in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation), concomitant use of aspirin increased the bleeding risk of apixaban from 1.8%/year to 3.4%/year. If given concomitantly, patients should be educated about the signs and symptoms of bleeding and be instructed to report them immediately or go to an emergency room.
Apomorphine: (Major) Use apomorphine and anagrelide together with caution due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during postmarketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary.
Argatroban: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., clopidogrel, platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors, ticlopidine, etc.) in combination with argatroban.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and anagrelide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Arsenic Trioxide: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with use of anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide include arsenic trioxide. In addition, anagrelide inhibits platelet aggregation at high doses. Patients with thrombocytopenia are at increased risk of bleeding complications. An increased risk of bleeding may occur.
Artemether; Lumefantrine: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide include artemether; lumefantrine.
Asenapine: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide include asenapine.
Aspirin, ASA: (Moderate) Use caution with the coadministration of aspirin and anagrelide. The coadministration of single or repeated doses of anagrelide and aspirin resulted in greater ex vivo anti-platelet aggregation effects than administration of aspirin alone. In an observational study, the concomitant use of anagrelide and aspirin increased the rate of major hemorrhagic events compared to patients receiving other cytoreductive therapy. Assess the risks and benefits of concomitant aspirin and anagrelide use, particularly in patients at high risk for hemorrhage. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Anagrelide has been shown to inhibit CYP1A2. In theory, coadministration of anagrelide with substrates of CYP1A2, including caffeine, could lead to increases in the serum concentrations of caffeine and, thus, adverse effects. (Moderate) Anagrelide is partially metabolized by CYP1A2. Coadministration of anagrelide with drugs that induce CYP1A2, such as barbiturates, could theoretically increase the elimination of anagrelide and decrease the efficacy of anagrelide. (Moderate) Use caution with the coadministration of aspirin and anagrelide. The coadministration of single or repeated doses of anagrelide and aspirin resulted in greater ex vivo anti-platelet aggregation effects than administration of aspirin alone. In an observational study, the concomitant use of anagrelide and aspirin increased the rate of major hemorrhagic events compared to patients receiving other cytoreductive therapy. Assess the risks and benefits of concomitant aspirin and anagrelide use, particularly in patients at high risk for hemorrhage. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Anagrelide has been shown to inhibit CYP1A2. In theory, coadministration of anagrelide with substrates of CYP1A2, including caffeine, could lead to increases in the serum concentrations of caffeine and, thus, adverse effects. (Moderate) Use caution with the coadministration of aspirin and anagrelide. The coadministration of single or repeated doses of anagrelide and aspirin resulted in greater ex vivo anti-platelet aggregation effects than administration of aspirin alone. In an observational study, the concomitant use of anagrelide and aspirin increased the rate of major hemorrhagic events compared to patients receiving other cytoreductive therapy. Assess the risks and benefits of concomitant aspirin and anagrelide use, particularly in patients at high risk for hemorrhage. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Anagrelide has been shown to inhibit CYP1A2. In theory, coadministration of anagrelide with substrates of CYP1A2, including caffeine, could lead to increases in the serum concentrations of caffeine and, thus, adverse effects. (Moderate) Use caution with the coadministration of aspirin and anagrelide. The coadministration of single or repeated doses of anagrelide and aspirin resulted in greater ex vivo anti-platelet aggregation effects than administration of aspirin alone. In an observational study, the concomitant use of anagrelide and aspirin increased the rate of major hemorrhagic events compared to patients receiving other cytoreductive therapy. Assess the risks and benefits of concomitant aspirin and anagrelide use, particularly in patients at high risk for hemorrhage. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Use caution with the coadministration of aspirin and anagrelide. The coadministration of single or repeated doses of anagrelide and aspirin resulted in greater ex vivo anti-platelet aggregation effects than administration of aspirin alone. In an observational study, the concomitant use of anagrelide and aspirin increased the rate of major hemorrhagic events compared to patients receiving other cytoreductive therapy. Assess the risks and benefits of concomitant aspirin and anagrelide use, particularly in patients at high risk for hemorrhage. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Use caution with the coadministration of aspirin and anagrelide. The coadministration of single or repeated doses of anagrelide and aspirin resulted in greater ex vivo anti-platelet aggregation effects than administration of aspirin alone. In an observational study, the concomitant use of anagrelide and aspirin increased the rate of major hemorrhagic events compared to patients receiving other cytoreductive therapy. Assess the risks and benefits of concomitant aspirin and anagrelide use, particularly in patients at high risk for hemorrhage. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Aspirin, ASA; Dipyridamole: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of anagrelide and dipyridamole. Both medications inhibit platelet aggregation and a potential additive risk for bleeding exists if they are coadministered. (Moderate) Use caution with the coadministration of aspirin and anagrelide. The coadministration of single or repeated doses of anagrelide and aspirin resulted in greater ex vivo anti-platelet aggregation effects than administration of aspirin alone. In an observational study, the concomitant use of anagrelide and aspirin increased the rate of major hemorrhagic events compared to patients receiving other cytoreductive therapy. Assess the risks and benefits of concomitant aspirin and anagrelide use, particularly in patients at high risk for hemorrhage. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Moderate) Use caution with the coadministration of aspirin and anagrelide. The coadministration of single or repeated doses of anagrelide and aspirin resulted in greater ex vivo anti-platelet aggregation effects than administration of aspirin alone. In an observational study, the concomitant use of anagrelide and aspirin increased the rate of major hemorrhagic events compared to patients receiving other cytoreductive therapy. Assess the risks and benefits of concomitant aspirin and anagrelide use, particularly in patients at high risk for hemorrhage. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Use caution with the coadministration of aspirin and anagrelide. The coadministration of single or repeated doses of anagrelide and aspirin resulted in greater ex vivo anti-platelet aggregation effects than administration of aspirin alone. In an observational study, the concomitant use of anagrelide and aspirin increased the rate of major hemorrhagic events compared to patients receiving other cytoreductive therapy. Assess the risks and benefits of concomitant aspirin and anagrelide use, particularly in patients at high risk for hemorrhage. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Atazanavir: (Moderate) Anagrelide is partially metabolized by CYP1A2. Coadministration of anagrelide with drugs that inhibit CYP1A2, such as atazanavir, could theoretically decrease the elimination of anagrelide and increase the risk of side effects or toxicity. Monitor for increased adverse effects if anagrelide is coadministered with atazanavir.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) Anagrelide is partially metabolized by CYP1A2. Coadministration of anagrelide with drugs that inhibit CYP1A2, such as atazanavir, could theoretically decrease the elimination of anagrelide and increase the risk of side effects or toxicity. Monitor for increased adverse effects if anagrelide is coadministered with atazanavir.
Atomoxetine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and anagrelide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Azithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of azithromycin with anagrelide due to the increased risk of QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain an ECG at baseline to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been spontaneously reported during azithromycin postmarketing surveillance. TdP and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects.
Barbiturates: (Moderate) Anagrelide is partially metabolized by CYP1A2. Coadministration of anagrelide with drugs that induce CYP1A2, such as barbiturates, could theoretically increase the elimination of anagrelide and decrease the efficacy of anagrelide.
Bedaquiline: (Major) Torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an electrocardiogram (ECG), should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide include bedaquiline.
Bismuth Subcitrate Potassium; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and anagrelide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and anagrelide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Bivalirudin: (Moderate) When used as an anticoagulant in patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI), bivalirudin is intended for use with aspirin (300 to 325 mg/day PO) and has been studied only in patients receiving concomitant aspirin. Generally, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving other platelet inhibitors (other than aspirin). In clinical trials in patients undergoing PTCA, patients receiving bivalirudin with heparin, warfarin, or thrombolytics had increased risks of major bleeding events compared to those receiving bivalirudin alone. According to the manufacturer, the safety and effectiveness of bivalirudin have not been established when used in conjunction with platelet inhibitors other than aspirin. However, bivalirudin has been safely used as an alternative to heparin in combination with provisional use of platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors during angioplasty (REPLACE-2). In addition, two major clinical trials have evaluated the use of bivalirudin in patients receiving streptokinase following acute myocardial infarction (HERO-1, HERO-2). Based on the these trials, bivalirudin may be considered an alternative to heparin therapy for use in combination with streptokinase for ST-elevation MI. Bivalirudin has not been sufficiently studied in combination with other more specific thrombolytics.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Buprenorphine: (Major) Buprenorphine should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide. Buprenorphine has been associated with QT prolongation and has a possible risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). FDA-approved labeling for some buprenorphine products recommend avoiding use with Class 1A and Class III antiarrhythmic medications while other labels recommend avoiding use with any drug that has the potential to prolong the QT interval, such as anagrelide. Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during coadministration of buprenorphine and anagrelide for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Major) Buprenorphine should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide. Buprenorphine has been associated with QT prolongation and has a possible risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). FDA-approved labeling for some buprenorphine products recommend avoiding use with Class 1A and Class III antiarrhythmic medications while other labels recommend avoiding use with any drug that has the potential to prolong the QT interval, such as anagrelide. Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during coadministration of buprenorphine and anagrelide for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Anagrelide is partially metabolized by CYP1A2. Coadministration of anagrelide with drugs that induce CYP1A2, such as barbiturates, could theoretically increase the elimination of anagrelide and decrease the efficacy of anagrelide.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Anagrelide has been shown to inhibit CYP1A2. In theory, coadministration of anagrelide with substrates of CYP1A2, including caffeine, could lead to increases in the serum concentrations of caffeine and, thus, adverse effects. (Moderate) Anagrelide is partially metabolized by CYP1A2. Coadministration of anagrelide with drugs that induce CYP1A2, such as barbiturates, could theoretically increase the elimination of anagrelide and decrease the efficacy of anagrelide.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Anagrelide has been shown to inhibit CYP1A2. In theory, coadministration of anagrelide with substrates of CYP1A2, including caffeine, could lead to increases in the serum concentrations of caffeine and, thus, adverse effects. (Moderate) Anagrelide is partially metabolized by CYP1A2. Coadministration of anagrelide with drugs that induce CYP1A2, such as barbiturates, could theoretically increase the elimination of anagrelide and decrease the efficacy of anagrelide.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Anagrelide has been shown to inhibit CYP1A2. In theory, coadministration of anagrelide with substrates of CYP1A2, including caffeine, could lead to increases in the serum concentrations of caffeine and, thus, adverse effects. (Moderate) Anagrelide is partially metabolized by CYP1A2. Coadministration of anagrelide with drugs that induce CYP1A2, such as barbiturates, could theoretically increase the elimination of anagrelide and decrease the efficacy of anagrelide. (Moderate) Use caution with the coadministration of aspirin and anagrelide. The coadministration of single or repeated doses of anagrelide and aspirin resulted in greater ex vivo anti-platelet aggregation effects than administration of aspirin alone. In an observational study, the concomitant use of anagrelide and aspirin increased the rate of major hemorrhagic events compared to patients receiving other cytoreductive therapy. Assess the risks and benefits of concomitant aspirin and anagrelide use, particularly in patients at high risk for hemorrhage. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide include rilpivirine.
Caffeine: (Moderate) Anagrelide has been shown to inhibit CYP1A2. In theory, coadministration of anagrelide with substrates of CYP1A2, including caffeine, could lead to increases in the serum concentrations of caffeine and, thus, adverse effects. (Moderate) Anagrelide has been shown to inhibit CYP1A2. In theory, coadministration of anagrelide with substrates of CYP1A2, including caffeine, could lead to increases in the serum concentrations of caffeine and, thus, adverse effects.
Caffeine; Sodium Benzoate: (Moderate) Anagrelide has been shown to inhibit CYP1A2. In theory, coadministration of anagrelide with substrates of CYP1A2, including caffeine, could lead to increases in the serum concentrations of caffeine and, thus, adverse effects.
Caplacizumab: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of caplacizumab and platelet inhibitors when possible. Assess and monitor closely for bleeding if use together is necessary. Interrupt use of caplacizumab if clinically significant bleeding occurs.
carBAMazepine: (Moderate) Anagrelide is partially metabolized by CYP1A2. Coadministration of anagrelide with drugs that induce CYP1A2, such as carbamazepine, could theoretically increase the elimination of anagrelide and decrease its efficacy. Patients should be monitored for changes in efficacy if these drugs are coadministered.
Celecoxib: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Ceritinib: (Major) Do not use anagrelide with ceritinib due to the risk of QT prolongation. Torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide; in addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. Concentration-dependent QT prolongation has also been reported with ceritinib.
Chloroquine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of chloroquine with anagrelide due to the increased risk of QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain an ECG at baseline to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. Chloroquine is associated with an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP); the risk of QT prolongation is increased with higher chloroquine doses. TdP and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
chlorproMAZINE: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide include chlorpromazine.
Cilostazol: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of anagrelide and cilostazol. Both medications inhibit platelet aggregation and a potential additive risk for bleeding exists if they are coadministered.
Cimetidine: (Moderate) Anagrelide is partially metabolized by CYP1A2. Coadministration of anagrelide with drugs that inhibit CYP1A2, such as cimetidine, could theoretically decrease the elimination of anagrelide and increase the risk of side effects or toxicity. Patients should be monitored for increased adverse effects if these drugs are coadministered.
Ciprofloxacin: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Ciprofloxacin is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP and should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide. In addition, anagrelide is partially metabolized by CYP1A2. Coadministration of anagrelide with drugs that inhibit CYP1A2, such as ciprofloxacin, could theoretically decrease the elimination of anagrelide and increase the risk of side effects or toxicity. Patients should be monitored for increased adverse effects if anagrelide is coadministered with ciprofloxacin.
Cisapride: (Contraindicated) QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. Because of the potential for TdP, concurrent use is contraindicated.
Citalopram: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide include citalopram. In addition, platelet aggregation may be impaired by selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., cilostazol, clopidogrel, dipyridamole, ticlopidine, platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors). Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SSRI concurrently with an antiplatelet medication and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Cladribine: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of purine analogs, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant platelet inhibitors.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide include clarithromycin.
Clofazimine: (Major) Concomitant use of clofazimine and anagrelide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) Torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Tricyclic antidepressants are associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP and should be used cautiously with anagrelide.
Clopidogrel: (Moderate) Although anagrelide inhibits platelet aggregation at high doses, there is a potential additive risk for bleeding if anagrelide is given in combination with other agents that effect hemostasis such as ADP receptor antagonists including clopidogrel, prasugrel, ticagrelor, or ticlopidine.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Caution is advisable during concurrent use of anagrelide and clozapine. Anagrelide is an inhibitor of CYP1A2, one of the isoenzymes responsible for the metabolism of clozapine. Treatment with clozapine has been associated with QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), cardiac arrest, and sudden death. Elevated plasma concentrations of clozapine occurring through inhibition of CYP1A2, CYP2D6, or CYP3A4 may potentially increase the risk of life-threatening arrhythmias, sedation, anticholinergic effects, seizures, orthostasis, or other adverse effects. When initiating clozapine or adding a mild or moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor to clozapine treatment, monitor for adverse reactions and consider reducing the clozapine dose if necessary. If the inhibitor is discontinued, monitor for lack of clozapine effectiveness and consider increasing the clozapine dose if necessary.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of promethazine and anagrelide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of promethazine and anagrelide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Collagenase: (Moderate) Cautious use of injectable collagenase by patients taking platelet inhibitors is advised. The efficacy and safety of administering injectable collagenase to a patient taking a platelet inhibitor within 7 days before the injection are unknown. Receipt of injectable collagenase may cause an ecchymosis or bleeding at the injection site.
Crizotinib: (Major) According to the manufacturer of anagrelide, coadministration with other medications that prolong the QT interval should be avoided. Torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide; in addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. Crizotinib has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Dabigatran: (Moderate) Although anagrelide inhibits platelet aggregation at high doses, there is a potential additive risk for bleeding if anagrelide is given in combination with other agents that effect hemostasis such as other anticoagulants. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3 to 4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. An in vivo interaction study in humans demonstrated that a single 1 mg dose of anagrelide administered concomitantly with a single dose of aspirin 900 mg was well tolerated; there was no effect on bleeding time, PT, or PTT. However, aspirin alone produced a marked inhibition of platelet aggregation ex vivo; anagrelide enhanced the platelet inhibition effects of aspirin slightly. In addition, a phase II trial, aspirin (81 mg or 325 mg) was randomly assigned to patients with atrial fibrillation receiving dabigatran (150 mg twice daily). Data obtained from logistic regression analysis suggest that the concomitant administration of aspirin and dabigatran may increase the risk of bleeding from 12% to 18% (81 mg aspirin) or 24% (325 mg aspirin). Monitor patients closely for signs of bleeding if dabigatran or anagrelide is given concomitantly with aspirin.
Dalteparin: (Moderate) Although anagrelide inhibits platelet aggregation at high doses, there is a potential additive risk for bleeding if anagrelide is given in combination with other agents that effect hemostasis such as other anticoagulants. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3 to 4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. An in vivo interaction study in humans demonstrated that a single 1 mg dose of anagrelide administered concomitantly with a single dose of aspirin 900 mg was well tolerated; there was no effect on bleeding time, PT, or PTT. However, aspirin alone produced a marked inhibition of platelet aggregation ex vivo; anagrelide enhanced the platelet inhibition effects of aspirin slightly. Patients may be at increased risk of bleeding if anagrelide is administered with aspirin.
Dasatinib: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide include dasatinib. In addition, due to the thrombocytopenic and possible platelet inhibiting effects of dasatinib, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant platelet inhibitors.
Defibrotide: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of defibrotide with antithrombotic agents like platelet inhibitors is contraindicated. The pharmacodynamic activity and risk of hemorrhage with antithrombotic agents are increased if coadministered with defibrotide. If therapy with defibrotide is necessary, discontinue antithrombotic agents prior to initiation of defibrotide therapy. Consider delaying the onset of defibrotide treatment until the effects of the antithrombotic agent have abated.
Degarelix: (Major) Do not use anagrelide with degarelix due to the risk of QT prolongation. Torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Deoxycholic Acid: (Moderate) Use deoxycholic acid with caution in patients receiving platelet inhibitors. Excessive bruising or bleeding may occur in and around the treatment area.
Desflurane: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide include halogenated anesthetics.
Desipramine: (Minor) Torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Tricyclic antidepressants are associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP and should be used cautiously with anagrelide.
Desvenlafaxine: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving platelet inhibitors. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SNRI with a platelet inhibitor and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Deutetrabenazine: (Major) Do not use anagrelide with other drugs that may prolong the QT interval. Torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. Deutetrabenazine may prolong the QT interval, but the degree of QT prolongation is not clinically significant when deutetrabenazine is administered within the recommended dosage range.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Major) Concomitant use of dexmedetomidine and anagrelide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide include quinidine.
Diclofenac: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Diflunisal: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Dipyridamole: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of anagrelide and dipyridamole. Both medications inhibit platelet aggregation and a potential additive risk for bleeding exists if they are coadministered.
Disopyramide: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide include disopyramide.
Dofetilide: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and anagrelide is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and TdP. TdP and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during postmarketing use of anagrelide.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide include rilpivirine.
Donepezil: (Major) Case reports indicate that QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) can occur during donepezil therapy. Donepezil is considered a drug with a known risk of TdP. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with donepezil include anagrelide.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Major) Case reports indicate that QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) can occur during donepezil therapy. Donepezil is considered a drug with a known risk of TdP. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with donepezil include anagrelide.
Dordaviprone: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and anagrelide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dronedarone: (Contraindicated) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. The concomitant use of dronedarone with other drugs that prolong the QTc may induce TdP and is contraindicated.
droPERidol: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide include droperidol.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Anagrelide has been shown to inhibit CYP1A2. In theory, coadministration of anagrelide with substrates of CYP1A2, including duloxetine, could lead to increases in the serum concentrations of these drugs and, thus, adverse effects. Patients receiving anagrelide and duloxetine concomitantly should be monitored for increased toxicity of duloxetine. Monitor the patient for signs of excessive serotonin activity. Patients should be informed of the possible increased risk of serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome occurs, duloxetine and the concomitant serotonergic agent should be discontinued and symptomatic treatment should be initiated.
Edoxaban: (Major) Coadministration of edoxaban and platelet inhibitors should be avoided due to an increased risk of bleeding during concurrent use. Occasionally, short-term coadministration may be necessary in patients transitioning to and from edoxaban. Long-term coadminstration is not recommended. Promptly evaluate any signs or symptoms of blood loss in patients on concomitant therapy.
Efavirenz: (Major) If possible, avoid coadministration of efavirenz and anagrelide, as use of these medications together may increase the risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). QT prolongation has been observed with use of efavirenz. Although data are limited, the manufacturer of efavirenz recommends an alternative antiretroviral be considered for patients receiving medications with a known risk for TdP. Ventricular tachycardia and TdP have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) If possible, avoid coadministration of efavirenz and anagrelide, as use of these medications together may increase the risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). QT prolongation has been observed with use of efavirenz. Although data are limited, the manufacturer of efavirenz recommends an alternative antiretroviral be considered for patients receiving medications with a known risk for TdP. Ventricular tachycardia and TdP have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) If possible, avoid coadministration of efavirenz and anagrelide, as use of these medications together may increase the risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). QT prolongation has been observed with use of efavirenz. Although data are limited, the manufacturer of efavirenz recommends an alternative antiretroviral be considered for patients receiving medications with a known risk for TdP. Ventricular tachycardia and TdP have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary.
Eliglustat: (Major) Eliglustat is predicted to cause PR, QRS, and/or QT prolongation at significantly elevated plasma concentrations. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with eliglustat include anagrelide.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide include rilpivirine.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide include rilpivirine.
Enasidenib: (Moderate) Monitor for cardiovascular events including QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and vasodilation and titrate the anagrelide dose accordingly if concomitant use of enasidenib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase anagrelide exposure; anagrelide is a CYP1A2 substrate and enasidenib is a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Encorafenib: (Major) Concomitant use of encorafenib and anagrelide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Enoxaparin: (Moderate) Although anagrelide inhibits platelet aggregation at high doses, there is a potential additive risk for bleeding if anagrelide is given in combination with other agents that effect hemostasis such as other anticoagulants. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3 to 4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. An in vivo interaction study in humans demonstrated that a single 1 mg dose of anagrelide administered concomitantly with a single dose of aspirin 900 mg was well tolerated; there was no effect on bleeding time, PT, or PTT. However, aspirin alone produced a marked inhibition of platelet aggregation ex vivo; anagrelide enhanced the platelet inhibition effects of aspirin slightly. Patients may be at increased risk of bleeding if anagrelide is administered with aspirin.
Entrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of entrectinib with anagrelide due to the risk of QT prolongation. Entrectinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects.
Eptifibatide: (Moderate) Although anagrelide inhibits platelet aggregation at high doses, there is a potential additive risk for bleeding if anagrelide is given in combination with other agents that effect hemostasis such as platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors.
Ergotamine; Caffeine: (Moderate) Anagrelide has been shown to inhibit CYP1A2. In theory, coadministration of anagrelide with substrates of CYP1A2, including caffeine, could lead to increases in the serum concentrations of caffeine and, thus, adverse effects.
eriBULin: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide include eribulin.
Erythromycin: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide include erythromycin.
Escitalopram: (Moderate) Escitalopram has been associated with QT prolongation. Coadministration with other drugs that have a possible risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), such as anagrelide, should be done with caution and close monitoring. In addition, platelet aggregation may be impaired by selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., cilostazol, clopidogrel, dipyridamole, ticlopidine, platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors). Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SSRI concurrently with an antiplatelet medication and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Etodolac: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Etrasimod: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and anagrelide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Fenoprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and anagrelide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fingolimod: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide include fingolimod.
Fish Oil, Omega-3 Fatty Acids (Dietary Supplements): (Moderate) Because fish oil, omega-3 fatty acids inhibit platelet aggregation, caution is advised when fish oils are used concurrently with other platelet inhibitors. Theoretically, the risk of bleeding may be increased.
Flecainide: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide include flecainide.
Fluconazole: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide include fluconazole.
Fludarabine: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of purine analogs, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant platelet inhibitors.
FLUoxetine: (Major) Do not use anagrelide with other drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as fluoxetine. Torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide; dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. QT prolongation and TdP have been reported in patients treated with fluoxetine. In addition, platelet aggregation may be impaired by SSRIs due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication in patients receiving platelet inhibitors.
fluPHENAZine: (Minor) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously with anagrelide include fluphenazine.
Flurbiprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
fluvoxaMINE: (Major) There may be an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) during concurrent use of fluvoxamine and anagrelide. Coadminister with caution. QT prolongation and TdP have been reported during postmarketing use of fluvoxamine. TdP and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as needed. Platelet aggregation may be impaired by fluvoxamine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving platelet inhibitors. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking fluvoxamine with an antiplatelet medication and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner. Lastly, anagrelide is partially metabolized by CYP1A2, and it also has demonstrated some inhibitory activity of CYP1A2. When anagrelide is coadministered with drugs that also are substrates of and inhibit CYP1A2, such as fluvoxamine, patients should be monitored for increased adverse effects of either drug.
Fondaparinux: (Moderate) Although anagrelide inhibits platelet aggregation at high doses, there is a potential additive risk for bleeding if anagrelide is given in combination with other agents that effect hemostasis such as other anticoagulants. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3 to 4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. An in vivo interaction study in humans demonstrated that a single 1 mg dose of anagrelide administered concomitantly with a single dose of aspirin 900 mg was well tolerated; there was no effect on bleeding time, PT, or PTT. However, aspirin alone produced a marked inhibition of platelet aggregation ex vivo; anagrelide enhanced the platelet inhibition effects of aspirin slightly. Patients may be at increased risk of bleeding if anagrelide is administered with aspirin.
Food: (Major) Advise patients to avoid cannabis use during anagrelide treatment due to decreased exposure of anagrelide which may alter its efficacy. Cannabis use induces CYP1A2 and anagrelide is a CYP1A2 substrate. The induction potential of cannabis is greatest with chronic inhalation. Other routes of administration or sporadic use may have less of an effect.
Foscarnet: (Major) When possible, avoid concurrent use of foscarnet with other drugs known to prolong the QT interval, such as anagrelide. Foscarnet has been associated with postmarketing reports of both QT prolongation and torsade de pointes TdP. Torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have also been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. If these drugs are administered together, obtain an electrocardiogram and electrolyte concentrations before and periodically during treatment.
Fosfomycin (injectable): (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and anagrelide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosfomycin: (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and anagrelide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fostemsavir: (Major) Do not use anagrelide with other drugs that prolong the QT interval. Torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, 4 times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Garlic, Allium sativum: (Moderate) Use together with caution. Garlic produces clinically significant antiplatelet effects, and a risk for bleeding may occur if platelet inhibitors are given in combination with garlic.
Gemifloxacin: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide include gemifloxacin.
Gemtuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Use gemtuzumab ozogamicin and anagrelide together with caution due to the potential for additive QT interval prolongation and risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). If these agents are used together, obtain an ECG and serum electrolytes prior to the start of gemtuzumab ozogamicin and as needed during treatment. Additionally, monitor patients for cardiovascular effects during concomitant therapy and evaluate as necessary. Although QT interval prolongation has not been reported with gemtuzumab ozogamicin, it has been reported with other drugs that contain calicheamicin. TdP and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects taking anagrelide.
Gepirone: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and anagrelide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Gepotidacin: (Major) Concomitant use of gepotidacin and anagrelide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Gilteritinib: (Major) Do not use anagrelide with gilteritinib due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects.
Ginger, Zingiber officinale: (Moderate) Ginger inhibits thromboxane synthetase, a platelet aggregation inducer, and is a prostacyclin agonist so additive bleeding may occur if platelet inhibitors are given in combination with ginger, zingiber officinale.
Ginkgo, Ginkgo biloba: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of bleeding with coadministration of ginkgo biloba and platelet inhibitors as an increased bleeding risk may occur. Although data are mixed, ginkgo biloba is reported to inhibit platelet aggregation and several case reports describe bleeding complications with ginkgo biloba, with or without concomitant drug therapy.
Givinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of givinostat and anagrelide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with givinostat is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 5 times the maximum recommended dose.
Glasdegib: (Major) Do not use anagrelide with other drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as glasdegib. Torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide; dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia.
Goserelin: (Major) Do not use anagrelide with other drugs that prolong the QT interval such as goserelin. Torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide; in addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. Androgen deprivation therapy (e.g., goserelin) also prolongs the QT interval; the risk may be increased with the concurrent use of drugs that may prolong the QT interval.
Granisetron: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide include granisetron.
Green Tea: (Moderate) Green tea has demonstrated antiplatelet and fibrinolytic actions in animals. It is possible that the use of green tea may increase the risk of bleeding if coadministered with anagrelide. Caution and careful monitoring of clinical and/or laboratory parameters are warranted if green tea and platelet inhibitors are coadministered.
Halogenated Anesthetics: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide include halogenated anesthetics.
Haloperidol: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide include haloperidol.
Heparin: (Moderate) Although anagrelide inhibits platelet aggregation at high doses, there is a potential additive risk for bleeding if anagrelide is given in combination with other agents that effect hemostasis such as other anticoagulants. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3 to 4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. An in vivo interaction study in humans demonstrated that a single 1 mg dose of anagrelide administered concomitantly with a single dose of aspirin 900 mg was well tolerated; there was no effect on bleeding time, PT, or PTT. However, aspirin alone produced a marked inhibition of platelet aggregation ex vivo; anagrelide enhanced the platelet inhibition effects of aspirin slightly. Patients may be at increased risk of bleeding if anagrelide is administered with aspirin.
Histrelin: (Major) Do not use anagrelide with other drugs that prolong the QT interval such as histrelin. Torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide; in addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. Androgen deprivation therapy (e.g., histrelin) also prolongs the QT interval; the risk may be increased with the concurrent use of drugs that may prolong the QT interval.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Hydroxychloroquine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of anagrelide and hydroxychloroquine due to the risk of increased QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain an ECG at baseline to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. Hydroxychloroquine prolongs the QT interval. Torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects.
hydrOXYzine: (Major) Do not use anagrelide with other drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as hydroxyzine. Torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide; dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects Postmarketing data indicate that hydroxyzine causes QT prolongation and TdP.
Ibritumomab Tiuxetan: (Major) During and after therapy, avoid the concomitant use of Yttrium (Y)-90 ibrutumomab tiuxetan with drugs that interfere with platelet function such as platelet inhibitors; the risk of bleeding may be increased. If coadministration with platelet inhibitors is necessary, monitor platelet counts more frequently for evidence of thrombocytopenia.
Ibrutinib: (Moderate) The concomitant use of ibrutinib and antiplatelet agents such as anagrelide may increase the risk of bleeding; monitor patients for signs of bleeding. Severe bleeding events have occurred with ibrutinib therapy including intracranial hemorrhage, GI bleeding, hematuria, and post procedural hemorrhage; some events were fatal. The mechanism for bleeding with ibrutinib therapy is not well understood.
Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Ibutilide: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide include ibutilide.
Icosapent ethyl: (Moderate) Icosapent ethyl is an ethyl ester of the omega-3 fatty acid eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA). Because omega-3 fatty acids inhibit platelet aggregation, caution is advised when icosapent ethyl is used concurrently with anticoagulants, platelet inhibitors, or thrombolytic agents. Theoretically, the risk of bleeding may be increased, but some studies that combined these agents did not produce clinically significant bleeding events. In one placebo-controlled, randomized, double-blinded, parallel study, patients receiving stable, chronic warfarin therapy were administered various doses of fish oil supplements to determine the effect on INR determinations. Patients were randomized to receive a 4-week treatment period of either placebo or 3 or 6 grams of fish oil daily. Patients were followed on a twice-weekly basis for INR determinations and adverse reactions. There was no statistically significant difference in INRs between the placebo or treatment period within each group. There was also no difference in INRs found between groups. One episode of ecchymosis was reported, but no major bleeding episodes occurred. The authors concluded that fish oil supplementation in doses of 36 grams per day does not have a statistically significant effect on the INR of patients receiving chronic warfarin therapy. However, an increase in INR from 2.8 to 4.3 in a patient stable on warfarin therapy has been reported when increasing the dose of fish oil, omega-3 fatty acids from 1 gram/day to 2 grams/day. The INR decreased once the patient decreased her dose of fish oil to 1 gram/day. This implies that a dose-related effect of fish oil on warfarin may be possible. Patients receiving warfarin that initiate concomitant icosapent ethyl therapy should have their INR monitored more closely and the dose of warfarin adjusted accordingly.
Iloperidone: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide include iloperidone.
Iloprost: (Moderate) When used concurrently with platelet inhibitors, inhaled iloprost may increase the risk of bleeding.
Imipramine: (Moderate) Torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Tricyclic antidepressants are associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP and should be used cautiously with anagrelide.
Indomethacin: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Inotersen: (Moderate) Use caution with concomitant use of inotersen and anagrelide due to the potential risk of bleeding from thrombocytopenia. Consider discontinuation of anagrelide in a patient taking inotersen with a platelet count of less than 50,000 per microliter.
Inotuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of inotuzumab ozogamicin with anagrelide due to the potential for additive QT interval prolongation and risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). If coadministration is unavoidable, obtain an ECG and serum electrolytes prior to the start of treatment, after treatment initiation, and periodically during treatment. Additionally, monitor patients for cardiovascular effects during concomitant therapy and evaluate as necessary. Inotuzumab has been associated with QT interval prolongation. TdP and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects taking anagrelide.
Intravenous Lipid Emulsions: (Moderate) Because fish oil, omega-3 fatty acids inhibit platelet aggregation, caution is advised when fish oils are used concurrently with other platelet inhibitors. Theoretically, the risk of bleeding may be increased.
Isoflurane: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide include halogenated anesthetics.
Itraconazole: (Major) Itraconazole has been associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with itraconazole include anagrelide.
Ivosidenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ivosidenib with anagrelide due to an increased risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QTc prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct any electrolyte abnormalities as clinically appropriate. An interruption of therapy and dose reduction of ivosidenib may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Prolongation of the QTc interval and ventricular arrhythmias have been reported in patients treated with ivosidenib. Torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects.
Ketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and anagrelide due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Ketoprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Ketorolac: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide include clarithromycin.
Lapatinib: (Major) Do not use anagrelide with lapatinib due to the risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). TdP and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide; in addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. Lapatinib has also been associated with concentration-dependent QT prolongation; ventricular arrhythmias and TdP have additionally been reported in postmarketing experience with lapatinib.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lefamulin with anagrelide as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, ECG monitoring is recommended during treatment. Lefamulin has a concentration dependent QTc prolongation effect. The pharmacodynamic interaction potential to prolong the QT interval of the electrocardiogram between lefamulin and other drugs that effect cardiac conduction is unknown. Torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects.
Lenvatinib: (Major) Do not use anagrelide with lenvatinib due to the risk of QT prolongation. Torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. Prolongation of the QT interval has been reported with lenvatinib therapy.
Leuprolide: (Major) Do not use anagrelide with other drugs that prolong the QT interval such as leuprolide. Torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide; in addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. Androgen deprivation therapy (e.g., leuprolide) also prolongs the QT interval; the risk may be increased with the concurrent use of drugs that may prolong the QT interval.
levoFLOXacin: (Major) Concomitant use of levofloxacin and anagrelide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Levoketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and anagrelide due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Levomilnacipran: (Moderate) Carefully monitor patients for signs and symptoms of bleeding during coadministration of levomilnacipran and platelet inhibitors. Serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) affect platelet activation; therefore, concomitant use may increase the risk of bleeding.
Lidocaine: (Moderate) Anagrelide has been shown to inhibit CYP1A2. In theory, coadministration of anagrelide with substrates of CYP1A2, including lidocaine, could lead to increases in the serum concentrations of lidocaine and, thus, adverse effects. Patients receiving anagrelide and lidocaine concomitantly should be monitored for increased toxicity of lidocaine.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Anagrelide has been shown to inhibit CYP1A2. In theory, coadministration of anagrelide with substrates of CYP1A2, including lidocaine, could lead to increases in the serum concentrations of lidocaine and, thus, adverse effects. Patients receiving anagrelide and lidocaine concomitantly should be monitored for increased toxicity of lidocaine.
Lidocaine; Prilocaine: (Moderate) Anagrelide has been shown to inhibit CYP1A2. In theory, coadministration of anagrelide with substrates of CYP1A2, including lidocaine, could lead to increases in the serum concentrations of lidocaine and, thus, adverse effects. Patients receiving anagrelide and lidocaine concomitantly should be monitored for increased toxicity of lidocaine.
Lithium: (Major) Lithium should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide. Lithium has been associated with QT prolongation. Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary.
Lofexidine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lofexidine and anagrelide due to the potential for additive QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Monitor ECG for QT prolongation if coadministration is required. Lofexidine prolongs the QT interval. In addition, there are postmarketing reports of TdP. TdP and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy.
Loperamide: (Major) Concomitant use of loperamide and anagrelide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Major) Concomitant use of loperamide and anagrelide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lopinavir with anagrelide due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain a baseline ECG to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. Lopinavir is associated with QT prolongation. Torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects.
Macimorelin: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as anagrelide. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy.
Mavorixafor: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and anagrelide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Meclofenamate Sodium: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Mefenamic Acid: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Mefloquine: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide include mefloquine.
Meloxicam: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Mercaptopurine, 6-MP: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of purine analogs, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant platelet inhibitors.
Meropenem: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of anagrelide and adjust dose accordingly if concomitant use of meropenem is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease anagrelide exposure; anagrelide is a CYP1A2 substrate and meropenem is a CYP1A2 inducer.
Meropenem; Vaborbactam: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of anagrelide and adjust dose accordingly if concomitant use of meropenem is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease anagrelide exposure; anagrelide is a CYP1A2 substrate and meropenem is a CYP1A2 inducer.
Methadone: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide include methadone.
Methohexital: (Moderate) Anagrelide is partially metabolized by CYP1A2. Coadministration of anagrelide with drugs that induce CYP1A2, such as barbiturates, could theoretically increase the elimination of anagrelide and decrease the efficacy of anagrelide.
Methoxsalen: (Minor) Agents that affect platelet function, such as platelet inhibitors, could decrease the efficacy of methoxsalen when used during photodynamic therapy.
metroNIDAZOLE: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and anagrelide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Mexiletine: (Moderate) Anagrelide is partially metabolized by and inhibits CYP1A2. When anagrelide is coadministered with drugs that also are substrates of and inhibit CYP1A2, such as mexiletine, patients should be monitored for increased adverse effects of either drug.
Midostaurin: (Major) The concomitant use of midostaurin and anagrelide may lead to additive QT interval prolongation. If these drugs are used together, consider obtaining electrocardiograms (ECG) to monitor the QT interval. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. In clinical trials, QT prolongation was reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin. Torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Concomitant use of anagrelide and mifepristone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Milnacipran: (Moderate) Carefully monitor patients for signs and symptoms of bleeding during coadministration of milnacipran and platelet inhibitors. Serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) affect platelet activation; therefore, concomitant use may increase the risk of bleeding.
Milrinone: (Moderate) Anagrelide is an inhibitor of cAMP phosphodiesterase III. The effects of milrinone, which is an inhibitor of cAMP phosphodiesterase isozyme in cardiac and vascular muscle, may be increased if coadministered with anagrelide.
Mirtazapine: (Major) Concomitant use of anagrelide and mirtazapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Mobocertinib: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and anagrelide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Moxifloxacin: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide include moxifloxacin.
Mycophenolate: (Moderate) Platelet Inhibitors inhibit platelet aggregation and should be used cautiously in patients with thrombocytopenia, as mycophenolate can also cause thrombocytopenia.
Nabumetone: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Naproxen: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Nelarabine: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant platelet inhibitors.
Nilotinib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of nilotinib with anagrelide as significant prolongation of the QT interval may occur. Torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Sudden deaths and QT prolongation have been reported with nilotinib therapy.
Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Nortriptyline: (Moderate) Torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Tricyclic antidepressants are associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP and should be used cautiously with anagrelide.
Obinutuzumab: (Moderate) Fatal hemorrhagic events have been reported in patients treated with obinutuzumab; all events occured during cycle 1. Monitor all patients for thrombocytopenia and bleeding, and consider withholding concomitant medications which may increase bleeding risk (i.e., anticoagulants, platelet inhibitors), especially during the first cycle.
Ofloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of ofloxacin and anagrelide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
OLANZapine: (Major) Coadministration may increase the risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). TdP and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval. Monitor patients for cardiovascular effects during concurrent use. In addition, anagrelide has been shown to inhibit CYP1A2. Olanzapine is a CYP1A2 substrate. In theory, coadministration could lead to increases in the serum concentration of olanzapine and thus, adverse effects.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Major) Coadministration may increase the risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). TdP and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval. Monitor patients for cardiovascular effects during concurrent use. In addition, anagrelide has been shown to inhibit CYP1A2. Olanzapine is a CYP1A2 substrate. In theory, coadministration could lead to increases in the serum concentration of olanzapine and thus, adverse effects. (Major) Do not use anagrelide with other drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as fluoxetine. Torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide; dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. QT prolongation and TdP have been reported in patients treated with fluoxetine. In addition, platelet aggregation may be impaired by SSRIs due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication in patients receiving platelet inhibitors.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Major) Coadministration may increase the risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). TdP and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval. Monitor patients for cardiovascular effects during concurrent use. In addition, anagrelide has been shown to inhibit CYP1A2. Olanzapine is a CYP1A2 substrate. In theory, coadministration could lead to increases in the serum concentration of olanzapine and thus, adverse effects.
Ondansetron: (Major) Concomitant use of ondansetron and anagrelide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Do not exceed 16 mg of IV ondansetron in a single dose; the degree of QT prolongation associated with ondansetron significantly increases above this dose.
Osilodrostat: (Major) Do not use anagrelide with other drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as osilodrostat. Torsade de pointes and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide; dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Osimertinib: (Major) Do not use anagrelide with other drugs that prolong the QT interval. Concentration-dependent QTc prolongation occurred during clinical trials of osimertinib. Torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects who received anagrelide.
Oxaliplatin: (Major) Do not use anagrelide with oxaliplatin due to the risk of QT prolongation. Torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including fatal TdP have also been reported with oxaliplatin use in postmarketing experience.
Oxaprozin: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Ozanimod: (Major) In general, do not initiate ozanimod in patients taking anagrelide due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ozanimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ozanimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. TdP and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects.
Pacritinib: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and anagrelide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Paliperidone: (Major) Paliperidone has been associated with QT prolongation; torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular fibrillation have been reported in the setting of overdose. According to the manufacturer, since paliperidone may prolong the QT interval, it should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have this effect. Do not use anagrelide with other drugs that prolong the QT interval. Torsade de pointes and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. If coadministration is considered necessary and the patient has known risk factors for cardiac disease or arrhythmias, close monitoring is essential.
Panobinostat: (Major) QT prolongation has been reported with panobinostat therapy in patients with multiple myeloma in a clinical trial; use of panobinostat with other agents that prolong the QT interval is not recommended. Obtain an electrocardiogram at baseline and periodically during treatment. Hold panobinostat if the QTcF increases to >= 480 milliseconds during therapy; permanently discontinue if QT prolongation does not resolve. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with panobinostat include anagrelide.
PARoxetine: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., cilostazol, clopidogrel, dipyridamole, ticlopidine, platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors). Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SSRI concurrently with an antiplatelet medication and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Pasireotide: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide include pasireotide.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide include pazopanib.
Peginterferon Alfa-2b: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects, such as bleeding, associated with increased exposure to anagrelide if peginterferon alfa-2b is coadministered. Peginterferon alfa-2b is a CYP1A2 inhibitor, while anagrelide is a CYP1A2 substrate.
Pentamidine: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide include pentamidine.
PENTobarbital: (Moderate) Anagrelide is partially metabolized by CYP1A2. Coadministration of anagrelide with drugs that induce CYP1A2, such as barbiturates, could theoretically increase the elimination of anagrelide and decrease the efficacy of anagrelide.
Pentosan: (Moderate) Although anagrelide inhibits platelet aggregation at high doses, there is a potential additive risk for bleeding if anagrelide is given in combination with other agents that effect hemostasis such as other anticoagulants. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3 to 4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. An in vivo interaction study in humans demonstrated that a single 1 mg dose of anagrelide administered concomitantly with a single dose of aspirin 900 mg was well tolerated; there was no effect on bleeding time, PT, or PTT. However, aspirin alone produced a marked inhibition of platelet aggregation ex vivo; anagrelide enhanced the platelet inhibition effects of aspirin slightly. Patients may be at increased risk of bleeding if anagrelide is administered with aspirin.
Pentostatin: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of purine analogs, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant platelet inhibitors.
Pentoxifylline: (Moderate) A potential additive risk for bleeding exists if platelet inhibitors are given in combination with other agents that affect hemostasis such as pentoxifylline.
Perphenazine: (Minor) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously with anagrelide include perphenazine.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Minor) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously with anagrelide include perphenazine.
PHENobarbital: (Moderate) Anagrelide is partially metabolized by CYP1A2. Coadministration of anagrelide with drugs that induce CYP1A2, such as barbiturates, could theoretically increase the elimination of anagrelide and decrease the efficacy of anagrelide.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Moderate) Anagrelide is partially metabolized by CYP1A2. Coadministration of anagrelide with drugs that induce CYP1A2, such as barbiturates, could theoretically increase the elimination of anagrelide and decrease the efficacy of anagrelide.
Pimavanserin: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval, such as anagrelide. Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. Coadministration may increase the risk for QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, a cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary.
Pimozide: (Contraindicated) Pimozide is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). TdP and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. Because of the potential for TdP, concurrent use is contraindicated.
Piroxicam: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Pitolisant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with anagrelide as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects.
Platelet Glycoprotein IIb/IIIa Inhibitors: (Moderate) Although anagrelide inhibits platelet aggregation at high doses, there is a potential additive risk for bleeding if anagrelide is given in combination with other agents that effect hemostasis such as platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors.
Ponesimod: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking anagrelide due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. TdP and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects.
Posaconazole: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide include posaconazole.
Prasterone, Dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA (Dietary Supplements): (Moderate) Prasterone is contraindicated for use in patients with active deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism or history of these conditions. Prasterone is also contraindicated in patients with active arterial thromboembolic disease (for example, stroke and myocardial infarction), or a history of these conditions. Thus, patients receiving anticoagulation due to a history of these conditions are not candidates for prasterone treatment. DHEA is converted to androgens and estrogens within the human body and thus may affect hemostasis via androgenic or estrogenic effects. Estrogens increase the production of clotting factors VII, VIII, IX, and X. Androgens, such as testosterone, increase the synthesis of several anticoagulant and fibrinolytic proteins. Because of the potential effects on coagulation, patients receiving prasterone or DHEA concurrently with preventative anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin or heparin) or other platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, ASA should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments.
Prasterone, Dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA (FDA-approved): (Moderate) Prasterone is contraindicated for use in patients with active deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism or history of these conditions. Prasterone is also contraindicated in patients with active arterial thromboembolic disease (for example, stroke and myocardial infarction), or a history of these conditions. Thus, patients receiving anticoagulation due to a history of these conditions are not candidates for prasterone treatment. DHEA is converted to androgens and estrogens within the human body and thus may affect hemostasis via androgenic or estrogenic effects. Estrogens increase the production of clotting factors VII, VIII, IX, and X. Androgens, such as testosterone, increase the synthesis of several anticoagulant and fibrinolytic proteins. Because of the potential effects on coagulation, patients receiving prasterone or DHEA concurrently with preventative anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin or heparin) or other platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, ASA should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments.
Prasugrel: (Moderate) Although anagrelide inhibits platelet aggregation at high doses, there is a potential additive risk for bleeding if anagrelide is given in combination with other agents that effect hemostasis such as ADP receptor antagonists including clopidogrel, prasugrel, ticagrelor, or ticlopidine.
Primaquine: (Major) Concomitant use of primaquine and anagrelide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Primidone: (Moderate) Anagrelide is partially metabolized by CYP1A2. Coadministration of anagrelide with drugs that induce CYP1A2, such as barbiturates, could theoretically increase the elimination of anagrelide and decrease the efficacy of anagrelide.
Procainamide: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide include procainamide.
Prochlorperazine: (Minor) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously with anagrelide include prochlorperazine.
Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of promethazine and anagrelide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Major) Concomitant use of promethazine and anagrelide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Concomitant use of promethazine and anagrelide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Propafenone: (Major) Concomitant use of propafenone and anagrelide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Protriptyline: (Moderate) Torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Tricyclic antidepressants are associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP and should be used cautiously with anagrelide.
Purine analogs: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of purine analogs, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant platelet inhibitors.
QUEtiapine: (Major) Concomitant use of quetiapine and anagrelide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
quiNIDine: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide include quinidine.
Quizartinib: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and anagrelide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ranolazine: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide include ranolazine.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) Monitor for dopaminergic adverse effects during concurrent use of rasagiline and anagrelide. Coadministration may result in increased rasagiline concentrations. A dose reduction of rasagiline may be necessary. Rasagiline is primarily metabolized by CYP1A2; anagrelide is a weak CYP1A2 inhibitor. When administered with a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor, the AUC of rasagiline was increased by 83%.
Relugolix: (Major) Do not use anagrelide with other drugs that prolong the QT interval such as relugolix. Torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Do not use anagrelide with other drugs that prolong the QT interval such as relugolix. Torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Reteplase, r-PA: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and antiplatelet agents is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, consider delaying the initiation of antiplatelet therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Revumenib: (Major) Concomitant use of revumenib and anagrelide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ribociclib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ribociclib with anagrelide due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Ribociclib has been shown to prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner. Ventricular tachycardia and TdP have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. Concomitant use may increase the risk for QT prolongation.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ribociclib with anagrelide due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Ribociclib has been shown to prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner. Ventricular tachycardia and TdP have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. Concomitant use may increase the risk for QT prolongation.
rifAMPin: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of anagrelide and adjust dose accordingly if concomitant use of rifampin is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease anagrelide exposure; anagrelide is a CYP1A2 substrate and rifampin is a CYP1A2 inducer.
Rilpivirine: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide include rilpivirine.
risperiDONE: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide include risperidone.
Rivaroxaban: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of platelet inhibitors such as anagrelide with rivaroxaban unless the benefit outweighs the risk of increased bleeding. An increase in bleeding time to 45 minutes was observed in 2 drug interaction studies where another platelet inhibitor and rivaroxaban (15 mg single dose) were coadministered in healthy subjects. In the first study, the increase in bleeding time to 45 minutes was observed in approximately 45% of patients. Approximately 30% of patients in the second study had the event. The change in bleeding time was approximately twice the maximum increase seen with either drug alone. No change in the pharmacokinetic parameters of either drug were noted.
romiDEPsin: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide include romidepsin.
rOPINIRole: (Moderate) Anagrelide has been shown to inhibit CYP1A2. In theory, coadministration of anagrelide with substrates of CYP1A2, including ropinirole, could lead to increases in the serum concentrations of ropinirole and, thus, adverse effects. Patients receiving anagrelide and ropinirole concomitantly should be monitored for increased toxicity of ropinirole.
Saquinavir: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide include saquinavir.
Secobarbital: (Moderate) Anagrelide is partially metabolized by CYP1A2. Coadministration of anagrelide with drugs that induce CYP1A2, such as barbiturates, could theoretically increase the elimination of anagrelide and decrease the efficacy of anagrelide.
Selpercatinib: (Major) Do not use anagrelide with other drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as selpercatinib. Concentration-dependent QT prolongation has been observed with selpercatinib therapy. Torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide; dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects.
Selumetinib: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of platelet inhibitors and selumetinib oral capsules. Selumetinib capsules contain vitamin E which may inhibit platelet aggregation and increase the risk for bleeding. Vitamin E content varies by capsule: each 10 mg capsule contains 32 mg alpha-tocopherol, each 25 mg capsule contains 36 mg alpha-tocopherol. Tolerable Upper Intake Levels of vitamin E vary by age and range from 200 to 1,000 mg alpha-tocopherol per day.
Sertraline: (Major) Concomitant use of sertraline and anagrelide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with sertraline is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Sevoflurane: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide include halogenated anesthetics.
Siponimod: (Major) Do not use anagrelide with other drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as siponimod. Siponimod therapy prolonged the QT interval at recommended doses in a clinical study. Torsade de pointes and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide; dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects.
Sodium Phenylbutyrate; Taurursodiol: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of anagrelide and adjust dose accordingly if concomitant use of taurursodiol is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease anagrelide exposure; anagrelide is a CYP1A2 substrate and taurursodiol is a CYP1A2 inducer.
Solifenacin: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously with anagrelide include solifenacin.
SORAfenib: (Major) Do not use anagrelide with sorafenib due to the risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Torsade de pointes and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. Sorafenib has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Sotalol: (Major) Concomitant use of sotalol and anagrelide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Sulindac: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
SUNItinib: (Major) Do not use anagrelide with other drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as sunitinib. Torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. Sunitinib can also cause dose-dependent QT prolongation, which may increase the risk for ventricular arrhythmias, including TdP.
Tacrolimus: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide include tacrolimus.
Taletrectinib: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and anagrelide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tamoxifen: (Major) Concomitant use of tamoxifen and anagrelide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Telavancin: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide include telavancin.
Tenecteplase: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and antiplatelet agents is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, consider delaying the initiation of antiplatelet therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Teriflunomide: (Moderate) Use caution when administering teriflunomide and anagrelide concurrently. In vivo data suggest that teriflunomide is a weak inducer of CYP1A2. Coadministration of teriflunomide with CYP1A2 substrates, such as anagrelide, may decrease anagrelide exposure and lead to a reduction in efficacy. Monitor platelet counts.
Tetrabenazine: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide include tetrabenazine.
Theophylline, Aminophylline: (Moderate) Anagrelide has been shown to inhibit CYP1A2. In theory, coadministration of anagrelide with substrates of CYP1A2, including aminophylline, could lead to increases in the serum concentrations of aminophylline and thus, adverse effects. Patients receiving anagrelide and aminophylline concomitantly should be monitored for increased toxicity of aminophylline. (Moderate) Anagrelide has been shown to inhibit CYP1A2. In theory, coadministration of anagrelide with substrates of CYP1A2, including theophylline, could lead to increases in the serum concentrations of theophylline and thus, adverse effects. Patients receiving anagrelide and theophylline concomitantly should be monitored for increased toxicity of theophylline.
Thioguanine, 6-TG: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of purine analogs, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant platelet inhibitors.
Thioridazine: (Contraindicated) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. Thioridazine, a phenothiazine, is associated with an established risk of QT prolongation and TdP and is contraindicated for use with other drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval.
Thrombolytic Agents: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and antiplatelet agents is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, consider delaying the initiation of antiplatelet therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Ticagrelor: (Moderate) Although anagrelide inhibits platelet aggregation at high doses, there is a potential additive risk for bleeding if anagrelide is given in combination with other agents that effect hemostasis such as ADP receptor antagonists including clopidogrel, prasugrel, ticagrelor, or ticlopidine.
Tirofiban: (Moderate) Although anagrelide inhibits platelet aggregation at high doses, there is a potential additive risk for bleeding if anagrelide is given in combination with other agents that effect hemostasis such as platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors.
tiZANidine: (Moderate) Avoid concomitant use of tizanidine and anagrelide as increased serum concentrations of tizanidine may occur. If use together is necessary, initiate tizanidine with the 2 mg dose and increase daily in 2 to 4 mg increments based on clinical response. Discontinue tizanidine if hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occurs. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate; anagrelide demonstrates some limited inhibitory activity towards CYP1A2 which may present a theoretical potential for interaction.
Tolmetin: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Tolterodine: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously with anagrelide include tolterodine.
Toremifene: (Major) Avoid coadministration of anagrelide with toremifene due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide; in addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner.
traZODone: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide include trazodone. In addition, platelet aggregation may be impaired by trazodone due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving platelet inhibitors. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking trazodone concurrently with an antiplatelet medication and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Triclabendazole: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and anagrelide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Trifluoperazine: (Minor) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation that should be used cautiously with anagrelide include trifluoperazine.
Trimipramine: (Moderate) Torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Tricyclic antidepressants are associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP and should be used cautiously with anagrelide.
Triptorelin: (Major) Do not use anagrelide with triptorelin due to the risk of QT prolongation. Torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. Androgen deprivation therapy (e.g., triptorelin) also prolongs the QT interval; the risk may be increased with the concurrent use of drugs that may prolong the QT interval.
Vandetanib: (Major) Do not use anagrelide with vandetanib due to the risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Torsade de pointes and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. Vandetanib can also prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib.
Vardenafil: (Major) Concomitant use of vardenafil and anagrelide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Vemurafenib: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Vemurafenib is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP and should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide. In addition, concomitant use of vemurafenib and anagrelide may result in increased anagrelide concentrations. Vemurafenib is a CYP1A2 inhibitor and anagrelide is a CYP1A2 substrate. Anagrelide inhibits platelet aggregation at high doses. Patients should be monitored for toxicity. Patients with thrombocytopenia are at increased risk of bleeding complications. An increased risk of bleeding may occur when anagrelide is used following agents that cause clinically significant thrombocytopenia including antineoplastic agents.
Venlafaxine: (Major) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by venlafaxine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving platelet inhibitors. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking venlafaxine concurrently with a platelet inhibitor and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner. Also, torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously with anagrelide include venlafaxine.
Vepdegestrant: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and anagrelide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Verteporfin: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of verteporfin with platelet inhibitors is necessary due to the risk of decreased verteporfin efficacy. Verteporfin is a light-activated drug. Once activated, local damage to neovascular endothelium results in a release of procoagulant and vasoactive factors resulting in platelet aggregation, fibrin clot formation, and vasoconstriction. Concomitant use of drugs that decrease platelet aggregation could decrease the efficacy of verteporfin therapy.
Vilazodone: (Moderate) Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vilazodone concurrently with salicylates or other platelet inhibitors and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner. Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vilazodone due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., aspirin, cilostazol, clopidogrel, dipyridamole, ticlopidine, platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors).
Viloxazine: (Moderate) Monitor for cardiovascular events including QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and vasodilation and titrate the anagrelide dose accordingly if concomitant use of viloxazine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase anagrelide exposure; anagrelide is a CYP1A2 substrate and viloxazine is a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Voclosporin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of voclosporin and anagrelide due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. Voclosporin has been associated with QT prolongation at supratherapeutic doses.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide include clarithromycin.
Vorapaxar: (Moderate) Because vorapaxar and anagrelide inhibit platelet aggregation, a potential additive risk for bleeding exists if they are coadminsitered.
Voriconazole: (Major) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary. Drugs with a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP that should be used cautiously and with close monitoring with anagrelide include voriconazole.
Vorinostat: (Major) Do not use anagrelide and vorinostat together. Anagrelide has been associated with torsade de pointes and ventricular tachycardia and vorinostat is associated with a risk of QT prolongation. Additionally, due to the thrombocytopenic effects of vorinostat, an additive risk of bleeding may occur in patients taking platelet inhibitors.
Vortioxetine: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., cilostazol, clopidogrel, dipyridamole, ticlopidine, platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors). Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with an antiplatelet medication and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Closely monitor the INR if coadministration of warfarin with anagrelide is necessary as concurrent use may increase the exposure of warfarin leading to increased bleeding risk. Anagrelide is a CYP1A2 inhibitor and the R-enantiomer of warfarin is a CYP1A2 substrate. Since anagrelide inhibits platelet aggregation at high doses, additive risk for bleeding is possible when anagrelide is given in combination with anticoagulants such as warfarin. The S-enantiomer of warfarin exhibits 2 to 5 times more anticoagulant activity than the R-enantiomer, but the R-enantiomer generally has a slower clearance.
Zidesamtinib: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and anagrelide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ziftomenib: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and anagrelide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Zileuton: (Moderate) Anagrelide is partially metabolized by and may inhibit CYP1A2. When anagrelide is coadministered with drugs that also are substrates of and inhibit CYP1A2, such as zileuton, patients should be monitored for increased adverse effects of either drug.
Ziprasidone: (Major) Avoid use of anagrelide with other drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as ziprasidone. Torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. Clinical trial data indicate that ziprasidone causes QT prolongation; there are postmarketing reports of TdP in patients with multiple confounding factors. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy.


Adverse Reaction
abdominal pain, anorexia, asthenia, back pain, cough, diarrhea, dizziness, dyspepsia, dyspnea, edema, fatigue, flatulence, headache, malaise, nausea, palpitations, paresthesias, peripheral edema, pharyngitis, rash, sinus tachycardia, urticaria, vomiting


The adverse reaction profile of anagrelide is based on results of clinical trials involving 942 patients with myeloproliferative diseases of various etiology. The most frequently reported adverse reactions to anagrelide (5% or more) in clinical trials were headache (43.5%), palpitations (26.1%), diarrhea (25.7%), asthenia (23.1%), edema (20.6%), abdominal pain (16.4%), nausea (17.1%), vomiting (9.7%), dizziness (15.4%), pain (15%), dyspnea (11.9%), flatulence (10.2%), chest pain (7.8%), rash including urticaria (8.3%), paresthesias (5.9%), sinus tachycardia (7.5%), peripheral edema (8.5%), dyspepsia (5.2%), back pain (5.9%), anorexia (7.7%), pharyngitis (6.8%), cough (6.3%), and malaise (6.4%). The most common adverse reactions associated with discontinuance of therapy were headache, diarrhea, edema, palpitations, and abdominal pain. The frequency and type of adverse reactions to anagrelide in pediatric patients are similar to those observed with adults. Headache and fatigue are among the most common adverse effects reported in pediatric patients. Other adverse reactions reported are palpitations, nausea/vomiting, abdominal pain, back pain, malaise, and muscle aches/cramps. Episodes of increased pulse rates (sinus tachycardia) and decreased systolic or diastolic blood pressure without clinical symptoms have been observed in some pediatric patients. Reported adverse events in pediatric patients are consistent with the known pharmacologic effects of anagrelide and the underlying disease.


angina, arrhythmia exacerbation, atrial fibrillation, AV block, cardiomyopathy, heart failure, hypertension, migraine, myocardial infarction, orthostatic hypotension, pericardial effusion, pericarditis, peripheral vasodilation, QT prolongation, stroke, supraventricular tachycardia (SVT), syncope, thrombosis, torsade de pointes, ventricular tachycardia


Cases torsade de pointes (TdP) have been reported with anagrelide. Anagrelide caused dose-related increases in mean QTc interval (QT prolongation) and heart rate in healthy volunteers. Monitor patients for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary during anagrelide therapy. Other reported serious adverse reactions include congestive heart failure, myocardial infarction, cardiomyopathy, cardiomegaly, cerebrovascular accident (e.g., stroke), complete AV block, atrial fibrillation, pericardial effusion, and pericarditis. Hypotension has been observed when tested at doses of 5 mg/day; at doses of 3 mg/day, hypotension did not occur. Cardiac adverse reactions reported in 1% to less than 5% of adult patients in clinical trials, regardless of causality, include cardiac arrhythmias (arrhythmia exacerbation), cardiovascular disease, angina pectoris, heart failure, hypertension, orthostatic hypotension, thrombosis, peripheral vasodilation, migraine, and syncope. Ventricular tachycardia and supraventricular tachycardia (SVT) have been reported in less than 1% of patients. Prinzmetal angina has been reported with postmarketing use.


pleural effusion, pulmonary fibrosis, pulmonary hypertension, rhinitis, sinusitis


Serious respiratory adverse reactions related to anagrelide therapy include pulmonary infiltrates, pleural effusion, pulmonary fibrosis, and pulmonary hypertension. Other respiratory reactions reported in 1% to less than 5% of patients include asthma, bronchitis, pneumonia, respiratory disease, rhinitis, and sinusitis.


anemia, bleeding, ecchymosis, epistaxis, lymphadenopathy, platelet dysfunction, thrombocytopenia


Hematologic adverse reactions that occurred in 1% to less than 5% of adult patients treated with anagrelide include anemia, bleeding, ecchymosis, lymphadenopathy, thrombocytopenia, and epistaxis. The frequency and type of adverse reactions reported in pediatric patients are similar to those observed with adults; the most common hematologic adverse event is nosebleed (epistaxis). At dosages higher than those required to produce thrombocytopenia, anagrelide may cause platelet dysfunction as it inhibits platelet aggregation. Anagrelide does not produce significant changes in red cell or white cell counts or coagulation parameters.


constipation, elevated hepatic enzymes, eructation, gastritis, GI bleeding, melena, pancreatitis, peptic ulcer


Gastrointestinal adverse reactions occurring in 1% to less than 5% of adult patients receiving anagrelide include constipation, elevated hepatic enzymes, eructation, gastritis, GI bleeding, GI distress, melena, and aphthous stomatitis. Serious GI-related adverse reactions include pancreatitis, gastric ulcer, and peptic ulcer. In addition, clinically significant hepatotoxicity (including elevations more than 3 times the upper limit of normal and symptomatic ALT and AST elevations) has been reported with postmarketing use. Measure liver function tests before initiating anagrelide therapy and during therapy.


amnesia, confusion, depression, drowsiness, hypoesthesia, insomnia


Nervous system adverse reactions occurring in 1% to less than 5% of adult patients receiving anagrelide include amnesia, confusion, depression, insomnia, nervousness, and drowsiness. Hypoesthesia has been reported in less than 1% of patients. Cerebral infarction has been reported with postmarketing use.


alopecia, amblyopia, arthralgia, chills, dehydration, diplopia, fever, muscle cramps, myalgia, photosensitivity, pruritus, tinnitus, visual impairment


Fever was reported in 8.9% of adult patients with myeloproliferative disease in clinical trials. Fever was also among the most commonly reported adverse effects in pediatric patients. Pruritus was reported in 5.5% of adult patients with myeloproliferative disease. Other adverse reactions to anagrelide reported in 1% to less than 5% of adult patients include alopecia, skin disease, amblyopia, visual impairment, visual field abnormality, tinnitus, diplopia, arthralgia, myalgia, muscle cramps (leg cramps), flu symptoms, chills, photosensitivity, and dehydration.


dysuria, hematuria, interstitial nephritis, renal failure (unspecified)


Urogenital system side effects reported in 1% to less than 5% of adult patients receiving anagrelide include dysuria and hematuria. Renal abnormalities were noted in 15 patients. Up to 1% of all treated patients experienced renal failure (unspecified) while on the drug; in less than 1% of the treated patients, renal failure was considered to be possibly related to anagrelide treatment. The remaining cases were found to have preexisting renal impairment and were successfully treated with anagrelide. Anagrelide doses ranged from 1.5 to 6 mg/day with exposure periods of 2 months to 1 year. Serum creatinine remained within normal limits and no dose adjustment was required because of renal insufficiency. Cases of tubulo-interstitial nephritis have been reported with postmarketing use.


eosinophilic pneumonia, interstitial lung disease, pneumonitis


Interstitial lung diseases (including allergic alveolitis, eosinophilic pneumonia, and interstitial pneumonitis) have been reported to be associated with the use of anagrelide in postmarketing. Most cases presented with progressive dyspnea with lung infiltrations. The time of onset ranged from 1 week to several years after initiating anagrelide. If suspected, discontinue anagrelide and evaluate. Symptoms may improve after drug discontinuation.


infertility


Anagrelide may cause infertility in females. In fertility studies involving female rats that received doses higher than the recommended maximum human dose, anagrelide was associated with increased pre- and post-implantation loss and a reduction in the number of live embryos.


Description

Anagrelide is an oral platelet reducing agent indicated for the treatment of thrombocythemia, secondary to myeloproliferative neoplasms, to reduce the elevated platelet count and the risk of thrombosis and to ameliorate associated symptoms including thrombo-hemorrhagic events. Anagrelide therapy requires clinical monitoring, including complete blood counts, hepatic and renal function, and electrolytes. QT prolongation and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide.

Mechanism Of Action

Anagrelide exerts a thrombocytopenic effect and also inhibits platelet aggregation. The thrombocytopenic effect appears to be a result of inhibiting megakaryocyte development in the late, postmitotic stage. In vitro, anagrelide altered maturation stage, size, and ploidy of developing megakaryocytes. Anagrelide does not appear to alter megakaryocyte progenitor cells or mitotic expansion of developing megakaryocyte precursors. The thrombocytopenic effects of anagrelide appear to be specific for humans. Clinically, anagrelide lowers platelet counts and reduces thrombosis as well as thrombo-hemorrhagic symptoms associated with thrombocythemia.
 
At dosages higher than those required to produce thrombocytopenia in humans, anagrelide affects platelet aggregation. The drug inhibits platelet aggregation by inhibiting cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase and the release of arachidonic acid from phospholipase, possibly by inhibiting phospholipase A2. These actions increase platelet concentrations of cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP). Anagrelide also inhibits collagen-induced platelet aggregation. Resistance to the drug effect does not appear to occur. Anagrelide does not produce significant changes in red cell or white cell counts or in coagulation parameters.

Pharmacokinetics

Anagrelide is administered orally. It is extensively metabolized to an active metabolite, 3-hydroxy-anagrelide, which is then metabolized by CYP1A2 to an inactive metabolite. Less than 1% of the administered dose is excreted unchanged in the urine. Approximately 3% and 16% to 20% of the administered dose is recovered as the active metabolite and inactive metabolite, respectively.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP1A2
Anagrelide and its active metabolite are primarily metabolized by CYP1A2. Anagrelide shows limited inhibitory activity towards CYP1A2 in vitro and may alter the exposure of concomitant CYP1A2 substrates.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route

Following oral administration, at least 70% of the anagrelide dose is absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract. In fasted patients, anagrelide peak plasma concentrations occur about 1 hour after administration. Pharmacokinetic data obtained from healthy volunteers comparing the pharmacokinetics of anagrelide in the fed and fasted states showed that administration of a 1 mg dose of anagrelide with food decreased the Cmax by 14%, but increased the AUC (total exposure) by 20%. The available plasma concentration time data at steady state in patients showed that neither anagrelide nor the active metabolite, 3-hydroxy-anagrelide, accumulate in plasma after repeated administration. The plasma elimination half-lives are approximately 1.5 hours and 2.5 hours for anagrelide and the active metabolite, respectively.

Hepatic Impairment

A pharmacokinetic study of a single dose of anagrelide 1 mg in subjects with moderate hepatic impairment showed an 8-fold increase in the AUC (total exposure) of anagrelide compared to healthy subjects. The use of anagrelide in patients with severe hepatic impairment has not been studied and use in this population should be avoided.

Renal Impairment

Pharmacokinetic study at a single dose of 1 mg anagrelide in subjects with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance less than 30 mL/min) showed no significant effects on the pharmacokinetics of anagrelide.

Pediatrics

Anagrelide dose-normalized Cmax and AUC were 17% and 56% higher, respectively, in children and adolescents (age range: 7 to 16 years) compared to adults.

Geriatric

Of the total number of subjects in clinical studies of anagrelide, 42.1% were 65 years and over, while 14.9% were 75 years and over. Anagrelide Cmax and AUC were 36% and 61% higher, respectively, in geriatric patients (age range: 65 to 75 years) compared to younger adults (age range: 22 to 50 years); however, the Cmax and AUC of the active metabolite were lower (42% and 37%, respectively) compared to younger adults.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Oral Administration


Anagrelide may be taken with or without food.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

2.5 mg/dose PO or 10 mg/day PO.

Elderly

2.5 mg/dose PO or 10 mg/day PO.

Adolescents

2.5 mg/dose PO or 10 mg/day PO.

Children

>= 7 years: 2.5 mg/dose PO or 10 mg/day PO.
< 7 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

Agrylin 0.5mg Capsule

Anagrelide Hydrochloride 0.5mg Oral capsule

Anagrelide Hydrochloride 1mg Oral capsule

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Anagrelide should be avoided in patients with severe hepatic impairment. In patients with moderate hepatic impairment, initial dosing is 0.5 mg PO once daily. In patients who have tolerated therapy for one week, the dose may be increased in increments of no more than 0.5 mg/day in any 1-week. The potential risks and benefits of anagrelide therapy in patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment should be assessed before treatment begins.

Renal Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

© 2026 Elsevier