=== Ixabepilone (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 3577)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Ixabepilone is an epothilone microtubule inhibitor that is indicated in combination with capecitabine for the treatment of metastatic or locally advanced breast cancer after failure of an anthracycline and a taxane in patients for whom further anthracycline therapy is contraindicated, and as...

Routes: injection (IV/IM/SC); Common adult doses: 40 mg/m2 (max BSA 2.2 m2).

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): dysesthesia, hyperesthesia, hypoesthesia, hyporeflexia, neuritis, neurotoxicity, paresthesias, peripheral neuropathy, dizziness, dysgeusia, headache, syncope, anemia, coagulopathy, leukopenia, lymphopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, colitis, gastroesophageal reflux, ileus, weight loss, enterocolitis, infection, laryngitis, cough, dysphonia, dyspnea, hypoxia, pneumonitis

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Ixabepilone is contraindicated in patients who have a history of severe polyoxyethylated castor oil hypersensitivity. The supplied diluent that must be used for reconstitution of ixabepilone has 52.8% weight per volume of purified polyoxyethylated castor oil. Emetic risk: Pediatrics: Doses 3 mg/m2 to 10 mg/m2: Moderate Extravasation risk: Irritant Hazardous drug: NIOSH 2024 List: Table 1

Brand Names
  - Ixempra

Dosage Forms
  - Ixempra 15mg Powder for Injection
  - IXEMPRA 15mg Powder for Injection
  - Ixempra 45mg Powder for Injection
  - IXEMPRA 45mg Powder for Injection

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Related Indications
      Heading
      for the treatment of metastatic or locally advanced breast cancer that is resistant to an anthracycline and a taxane, or that is taxane resistant and for patients whom further anthracycline therapy is contraindicated, in combination with capecitabine
      Routes
        Heading
        Intravenous dosage
        Route Age Groups
          Heading
          Adults
          Dosage Description
          40 mg/m2 (maximum BSA, 2.2 m2) IV over 3 hours on day 1, in combination with capecitabine (1,000 mg/m2 PO twice daily on days 1 to 14, followed by 1 week of rest), every 3 weeks. One hour prior to ixabepilone administration, premedicate with an H1 antagonist (e.g., diphenhydramine 50 mg PO or equivalent) and an H2 antagonist; add dexamethasone 20 mg in patients who have previously had a reaction to ixabepilone. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. In a multicenter, randomized, open-label clinical trial of patients with anthracycline- and taxane-resistant locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer (n = 752), treatment with ixabepilone plus capecitabine significantly improved the median progression-free survival (5.7 months vs. 4.1 months) and objective response rate (34.7% vs. 14.3%) compared with capecitabine alone; the median duration of response was 6.4 months versus 5.6 months, respectively. There was no significant difference in overall survival.
      Heading
      for the treatment of metastatic or locally advanced breast cancer that is resistant or refractory to anthracyclines, taxanes, and capecitabine, as monotherapy
      Routes
        Heading
        Intravenous dosage
        Route Age Groups
          Heading
          Adults
          Dosage Description
          40 mg/m2 (maximum BSA, 2.2 m2) IV over 3 hours on day 1, every 3 weeks. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. Treatment with ixabepilone resulted in an objective response rate of 12.4% by independent review and 18.3% by investigator assessment, for a median duration of 6 months in a multicenter, single-arm study in women with progressive or recurrent locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer (n = 126); all responses were partial. The median time to response was 6.1 weeks.
    Routes
    Heading
    For the treatment of breast cancer

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Ixabepilone is contraindicated in patients who have a history of severe polyoxyethylated castor oil hypersensitivity. The supplied diluent that must be used for reconstitution of ixabepilone has 52.8% weight per volume of purified polyoxyethylated castor oil. As hypersensitivity reactions may occur, premedication with both an H1 and H2 blocker should be administered to all patients approximately 1 hour before the ixabepilone infusion. Closely observe patients for symptoms of hypersensitivity reactions such as bronchospasm, dyspnea, flushing, and rash. In the event of a severe hypersensitivity reaction, stop the infusion and give supportive treatment. Any patient who experiences a hypersensitivity reaction with ixabepilone should be premedicated with a corticosteroid in addition to an H1 and H2 blocker before subsequent infusions. In addition, the length of the infusion may be extended (see Administration).
 
Ixabepilone is associated with dose-related bone marrow suppression. Ixabepilone is contraindicated in patients with neutropenia defined as a neutrophil count = 1500/mm3 and platelets are >= 100,000/mm3. The ixabepilone dose should be reduced in any patient who experiences severe neutropenia or thrombocytopenia (see Dosage). Ixabepilone should be administered under the supervision of a physician experienced in the use of cancer chemotherapeutic agents. Appropriate management of complications is possible only when adequate diagnostic and treatment facilities are readily available.
 
Combination therapy with ixabepilone and capecitabine is contraindicated in patients with hepatic disease defined as an AST or ALT > 2.5 x ULN or a bilirubin > 1 x ULN. Increased ixabepilone systemic exposure occurred among patients with mild to severe hepatic impairment (see Pharmacokinetics). In addition, the incidence of ixabepilone-related toxicity was higher among patients with an elevated AST, ALT, or bilirubin. Among patients with an AST or ALT > 2.5 x ULN or bilirubin > 1.5 x ULN and who received both ixabepilone and capecitabine, a greater incidence of grade 3/4 serious adverse reactions, febrile neutropenia, and toxicity-related deaths occurred.  Among patients with baseline AST or ALT > 2.5 x ULN or bilirubin > 1.5 x ULN who received monotherapy with ixabepilone, there was a higher incidence of grade 4 neutropenia, febrile neutropenia, and serious adverse effects. Due to the higher frequency of adverse reactions, dose adjustment is necessary in patients receiving ixabepilone monotherapy with mild (AST or ALT 1.5 x ULN to 5 x ULN; caution is advised. Ixabepilone monotherapy is not recommended for use in patients with an AST or ALT > 10 x ULN or a bilirubin > 3 x ULN (jaundice). Hepatic function assessment is recommended before ixabepilone initiation and periodically thereafter.
 
In clinical trials, peripheral neuropathy was one of the most commonly reported adverse reactions and most frequent cause of therapy discontinuation (see Adverse Reactions). Patients with diabetes mellitus may be at increased risk of severe neuropathy. Neither grade 1 neuropathy at baseline nor a previous history of treatment with a neurotoxic chemotherapeutic agent were found to be a risk factor. Patients with moderate to severe neuropathy, defined as >= grade 2, at baseline were excluded from clinical studies. Caution should be utilized when ixabepilone is administered to patients with diabetes mellitus or moderate to severe (>= grade 2) neuropathy.
 
Caution should be utilized when ixabepilone is administered to patients with cardiac disease. Patients receiving combination therapy with ixabepilone and capecitabine had a higher incidence of myocardial ischemia and ventricular dysfunction (1.9%) as compared with patients who received capecitabine monotherapy (0.3%). Cardiac arrhythmias, specifically supraventricular arrhythmias, were not reported in any patient receiving capecitabine monotherapy whereas 0.5% of patients receiving combination therapy had supraventricular arrhythmias. Ixabepilone therapy may need to be discontinued in any patient who develops cardiac ischemia or impaired cardiac function.
 
The safety and efficacy of ixabepilone in children have not been established.
 
The supplied diluent that must be used for reconstitution of ixabepilone has a high concentration of dehydrated alcohol (39.8% (w/v)). Consideration should be given to the CNS effects and other effects of alcohol. Special consideration may be prudent in individuals with alcoholism or a history of substance abuse. Patients should be cautioned regarding driving or operating machinery immediately after Ixempra™ receipt, as the high alcohol content infused over a short period of time may cause impairment.
 
Per the manufacturer, clinical studies did not include a sufficient number of elderly patients >= 65 years of age to adequately evaluate whether there is any difference in response to therapy between those >= 65 years of age and < 65 years of age. As compared with data from younger patients, patients at least 65 years who got both ixabepilone and capecitabine had a higher incidence of grade 3/4 adverse reactions. Two of 43 patients at least 65 years with no more than mild hepatic impairment at baseline had a toxicity-related death. Among monotherapy recipients, no differences in the ixabepilone safety profile were noted between younger and older patients. However, data are limited.
 
Ixabepilone is classified as FDA pregnancy risk category D and has been shown to produce toxic effects, including death, in fetal animal studies. There are no data concerning the effects in pregnant women. Therefore, ixabepilone should be avoided during pregnancy, and females of childbearing potential should be instructed to avoid becoming pregnant during ixabepilone therapy. If a woman becomes pregnant while receiving this drug, she should be counseled of the potential harm to the fetus and the possible of loss of pregnancy.
 
Excretion of ixabepilone into human breast milk is not known. In animal studies, ixabepilone was found to be excreted into breast milk. Due to the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants, breast-feeding is not advised, and patients should be instructed to either discontinue breast-feeding or discontinue ixabepilone. Consider the importance of ixabepilone receipt by the mother.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. It is also contraindicated in patients with a history of severe hypersensitivity reactions to other agents containing Cremophor EL or its derivatives (e.g., polyoxyethylated castor oil).
    Headline
    diabetes mellitus, peripheral neuropathy
    General Information
    Closely monitor patients with diabetes mellitus or a history of peripheral neuropathy for symptoms of neuropathy during treatment with ixabepilone (e.g., burning sensations, hyperesthesia, hypoesthesia, paresthesia, discomfort, or neuropathic pain), as these patients may be at increased risk of severe neuropathy according to a pooled analysis of 1,540 cancer patients. Both sensory and motor peripheral neuropathy occurred in patients treated with ixabepilone as monotherapy or in combination with capecitabine; patients with moderate to severe neuropathy (i.e., grade 2 or higher) were excluded from clinical trials with ixabepilone. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary depending on the severity and persistence of peripheral neuropathy.
    Headline
    cardiac disease
    General Information
    Closely monitor patients with a history of cardiac disease during treatment with ixabepilone. Cardiac adverse reactions including myocardial ischemia and ventricular dysfunction have occurred in patients receiving ixabepilone as monotherapy and in combination with capecitabine. Consider discontinuation of ixabepilone in patients who develop cardiac ischemia or impaired cardiac function.
    Headline
    neutropenia, thrombocytopenia
    General Information
    Ixabepilone is contraindicated in patients with thrombocytopenia (platelets less than 100,000 cells/mm3) or grade 2 or higher neutropenia (ANC less than 1,500 cells/mm3). Severe, dose-dependent, life-threatening or fatal myelosuppression can occur with ixabepilone treatment. Frequently monitor complete blood counts during treatment with ixabepilone; an interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary depending on the severity and persistence of myelosuppression.
    Headline
    hepatic disease when coadministered with certain medications, hepatic failure
    General Information
    Ixabepilone is contraindicated when used in combination with capecitabine in patients with AST or ALT greater than 2.5 times the upper limit of normal or bilirubin greater than 1 times ULN due to increased risk of toxicity and neutropenia-related death (hepatic disease when coadministered with certain medications). Avoid the use of ixabepilone monotherapy in patients with an AST or ALT greater than 10 times ULN, bilirubin greater than 3 times ULN (excluding those with hyperbilirubinemia due to Gilbert's disease), or hepatic failure. Use ixabepilone with caution in patients with hepatic disease due to increased ixabepilone exposure which may result in an increased incidence of neutropenia, febrile neutropenia, and serious adverse reactions; a dose reduction may be necessary based on the degree of hepatic impairment. Consider the alcohol content of ixabepilone when treating patients with hepatic impairment. Monitor liver function tests at baseline and periodically thereafter.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Pregnancy should be avoided by females of reproductive potential during ixabepilone treatment and for at least 7 months after the last dose. Although there are no adequately controlled studies in pregnant women, ixabepilone can cause fetal harm or death when administered during pregnancy based on its mechanism of action and animal studies. Ixabepilone also contains alcohol which can interfere with neurobehavioral development. Women who are pregnant or who become pregnant while receiving ixabepilone should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus. In animal reproduction studies, IV administration of ixabepilone to pregnant rats and rabbits during organogenesis caused maternal toxicity (death), embryo-fetal lethality (e.g., post-implantation loss and decreased number of live fetuses), and fetal abnormalities (e.g., reduced ossification of caudal vertebrae, sternebrae, and metacarpals) at maternal exposures below the human clinical exposure based on AUC.
    Headline
    activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery
    General Information
    Advise patients to use caution with driving or operating machinery or performing other dangerous duties or activities requiring coordination and concentration immediately after the ixabepilone infusion due to the risk of decreased consciousness or coordination. Ixabepilone delivers approximately 8.4 g/m2 of ethanol per infusion at the recommended dose; for a patient with a BSA of 2.0 m2, this would deliver approximately 16.8 grams of ethanol. Take the alcohol content of ixabepilone into account for patients who should avoid or minimize alcohol intake.
    Headline
    contraception requirements, infertility, male-mediated teratogenicity, pregnancy testing, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel patients about the reproductive risk and contraception requirements during ixabepilone treatment. Ixabepilone can be teratogenic if taken by the mother during pregnancy. Females of reproductive potential should avoid pregnancy and use effective contraception during and for at least 7 months after treatment with ixabepilone. Due to the risk of male-mediated teratogenicity, males with female partners of reproductive potential should use effective contraception during and for at least 4 months after treatment with ixabepilone. Females of reproductive potential should undergo pregnancy testing prior to initiation of ixabepilone. Women who become pregnant while receiving ixabepilone should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus. Although there are no data regarding the effect of ixabepilone on human fertility, male and female infertility has been observed in animal studies.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Due to the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from ixabepilone, advise women to discontinue breast-feeding during treatment and for 2 weeks after the final dose. It is not known whether ixabepilone is present in human milk, although many drugs are excreted in human milk.
    Headline
    adolescents, children, infants, neonates
    General Information
    Take the alcohol content of ixabepilone into account when given to pediatric patients including adolescents, children, infants, and neonates.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Pregnancy should be avoided by females of reproductive potential during ixabepilone treatment and for at least 7 months after the last dose. Although there are no adequately controlled studies in pregnant women, ixabepilone can cause fetal harm or death when administered during pregnancy based on its mechanism of action and animal studies. Ixabepilone also contains alcohol which can interfere with neurobehavioral development. Women who are pregnant or who become pregnant while receiving ixabepilone should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus. In animal reproduction studies, IV administration of ixabepilone to pregnant rats and rabbits during organogenesis caused maternal toxicity (death), embryo-fetal lethality (e.g., post-implantation loss and decreased number of live fetuses), and fetal abnormalities (e.g., reduced ossification of caudal vertebrae, sternebrae, and metacarpals) at maternal exposures below the human clinical exposure based on AUC.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Counsel patients about the reproductive risk and contraception requirements during ixabepilone treatment. Ixabepilone can be teratogenic if taken by the mother during pregnancy. Females of reproductive potential should avoid pregnancy and use effective contraception during and for at least 7 months after treatment with ixabepilone. Due to the risk of male-mediated teratogenicity, males with female partners of reproductive potential should use effective contraception during and for at least 4 months after treatment with ixabepilone. Females of reproductive potential should undergo pregnancy testing prior to initiation of ixabepilone. Women who become pregnant while receiving ixabepilone should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus. Although there are no data regarding the effect of ixabepilone on human fertility, male and female infertility has been observed in animal studies.

Interactions
Adagrasib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and adagrasib due to increased ixabepilone exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of ixabepilone to 20 mg/m2. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ixabepilone exposure by 79%.
Amiodarone: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of amiodarone is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and amiodarone is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Amobarbital: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and barbiturates due to decreased plasma concentrations of ixabepilone, which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, gradually increase the dose of ixabepilone as tolerated from 40 mg/m2 to 60 mg/m2 and infuse over 4 hours; monitor carefully for ixabepilone-related toxicities. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased ixabepilone exposure by 43%.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and clarithromycin due to increased ixabepilone exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of ixabepilone to 20 mg/m2. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ixabepilone exposure by 79%.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and apalutamide due to decreased plasma concentrations of ixabepilone, which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, gradually increase the dose of ixabepilone as tolerated from 40 mg/m2 to 60 mg/m2 and infuse over 4 hours; monitor carefully for ixabepilone-related toxicities. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased ixabepilone exposure by 43%.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of a 3-day oral regimen of aprepitant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and aprepitant, administered orally over 3 days, is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Single oral doses of aprepitant and intravenous doses of fosaprepitant have not been shown to alter concentrations of CYP3A4 substrate.
Asciminib: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of asciminib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and asciminib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and barbiturates due to decreased plasma concentrations of ixabepilone, which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, gradually increase the dose of ixabepilone as tolerated from 40 mg/m2 to 60 mg/m2 and infuse over 4 hours; monitor carefully for ixabepilone-related toxicities. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased ixabepilone exposure by 43%.
Atazanavir: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and atazanavir due to increased ixabepilone exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of ixabepilone to 20 mg/m2. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ixabepilone exposure by 79%.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and atazanavir due to increased ixabepilone exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of ixabepilone to 20 mg/m2. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ixabepilone exposure by 79%. (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and cobicistat due to increased ixabepilone exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of ixabepilone to 20 mg/m2. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ixabepilone exposure by 79%.
Avacopan: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of avacopan is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Bacillus Calmette-Guerin Vaccine, BCG: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Barbiturates: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and barbiturates due to decreased plasma concentrations of ixabepilone, which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, gradually increase the dose of ixabepilone as tolerated from 40 mg/m2 to 60 mg/m2 and infuse over 4 hours; monitor carefully for ixabepilone-related toxicities. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased ixabepilone exposure by 43%.
Belumosudil: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of belumosudil is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and belumosudil is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Berotralstat: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of berotralstat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and berotralstat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Bicalutamide: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of bicalutamide is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and bicalutamide is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of lenacapavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Bismuth Subcitrate Potassium; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Monitor for a disulfiram-like reaction if concomitant use of ixabepilone and metronidazole is necessary. Disulfiram-like side effects, including nausea, vomiting, tachycardia, headache, flushing, and abdominal cramps, have been observed following recreational alcohol consumption in patients receiving metronidazole. Ixabepilone is formulated with ethanol, and each 40 mg/m2 dose delivers approximately 8.4 g/m2 of ethanol. Clinical practice guidelines suggest that the risk for disulfiram-like side effects with metronidazole is minimal as metronidazole does not inhibit acetaldehyde dehydrogenase and previously observed adverse effects are equally attributable to either alcohol or metronidazole alone.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Monitor for a disulfiram-like reaction if concomitant use of ixabepilone and metronidazole is necessary. Disulfiram-like side effects, including nausea, vomiting, tachycardia, headache, flushing, and abdominal cramps, have been observed following recreational alcohol consumption in patients receiving metronidazole. Ixabepilone is formulated with ethanol, and each 40 mg/m2 dose delivers approximately 8.4 g/m2 of ethanol. Clinical practice guidelines suggest that the risk for disulfiram-like side effects with metronidazole is minimal as metronidazole does not inhibit acetaldehyde dehydrogenase and previously observed adverse effects are equally attributable to either alcohol or metronidazole alone.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and barbiturates due to decreased plasma concentrations of ixabepilone, which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, gradually increase the dose of ixabepilone as tolerated from 40 mg/m2 to 60 mg/m2 and infuse over 4 hours; monitor carefully for ixabepilone-related toxicities. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased ixabepilone exposure by 43%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and barbiturates due to decreased plasma concentrations of ixabepilone, which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, gradually increase the dose of ixabepilone as tolerated from 40 mg/m2 to 60 mg/m2 and infuse over 4 hours; monitor carefully for ixabepilone-related toxicities. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased ixabepilone exposure by 43%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and barbiturates due to decreased plasma concentrations of ixabepilone, which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, gradually increase the dose of ixabepilone as tolerated from 40 mg/m2 to 60 mg/m2 and infuse over 4 hours; monitor carefully for ixabepilone-related toxicities. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased ixabepilone exposure by 43%.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and barbiturates due to decreased plasma concentrations of ixabepilone, which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, gradually increase the dose of ixabepilone as tolerated from 40 mg/m2 to 60 mg/m2 and infuse over 4 hours; monitor carefully for ixabepilone-related toxicities. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased ixabepilone exposure by 43%.
Capivasertib: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of capivasertib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and capivasertib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and carbamazepine due to decreased plasma concentrations of ixabepilone, which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, gradually increase the dose of ixabepilone as tolerated from 40 mg/m2 to 60 mg/m2 and infuse over 4 hours; monitor carefully for ixabepilone-related toxicities. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and carbamazepine is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased ixabepilone exposure by 43%.
Ceritinib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and ceritinib due to increased ixabepilone exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of ixabepilone to 20 mg/m2. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and ceritinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ixabepilone exposure by 79%.
Chikungunya Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Chloramphenicol: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and chloramphenicol due to increased ixabepilone exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of ixabepilone to 20 mg/m2. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ixabepilone exposure by 79%.
Cholera Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the live cholera vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to cholera bacteria after receiving the vaccine.
Cimetidine: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of cimetidine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and cimetidine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Ciprofloxacin: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of ciprofloxacin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and ciprofloxacin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and clarithromycin due to increased ixabepilone exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of ixabepilone to 20 mg/m2. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ixabepilone exposure by 79%.
Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and cobicistat due to increased ixabepilone exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of ixabepilone to 20 mg/m2. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ixabepilone exposure by 79%.
Conivaptan: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of conivaptan is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and conivaptan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Crizotinib: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of crizotinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and crizotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of cyclosporine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and cyclosporine is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Dalfopristin; Quinupristin: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of dalfopristin; quinupristin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and dalfopristin; quinupristin is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Danazol: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of danazol is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and danazol is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Daridorexant: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of daridorexant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and daridorexant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Darunavir: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and darunavir due to increased ixabepilone exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of ixabepilone to 20 mg/m2. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ixabepilone exposure by 79%.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and cobicistat due to increased ixabepilone exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of ixabepilone to 20 mg/m2. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ixabepilone exposure by 79%. (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and darunavir due to increased ixabepilone exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of ixabepilone to 20 mg/m2. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ixabepilone exposure by 79%.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and cobicistat due to increased ixabepilone exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of ixabepilone to 20 mg/m2. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ixabepilone exposure by 79%. (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and darunavir due to increased ixabepilone exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of ixabepilone to 20 mg/m2. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ixabepilone exposure by 79%.
Dengue Tetravalent Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of the live dengue virus vaccine with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Dichlorphenamide: (Moderate) Use dichlorphenamide and ixabepilone together with caution as both drugs can cause metabolic acidosis. Concurrent use may increase the severity of metabolic acidosis. Measure sodium bicarbonate concentrations at baseline and periodically during dichlorphenamide treatment. If metabolic acidosis occurs or persists, consider reducing the dose or discontinuing dichlorphenamide therapy.
dilTIAZem: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of diltiazem is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and diltiazem is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Disulfiram: (Contraindicated) The supplied diluent that must be used for reconstitution of ixabepilone has a high concentration of dehydrated alcohol (39.8% w/v). Administration of ixabepilone to patients receiving or who have recently received disulfiram may result in disulfiram-like reactions.
Dronedarone: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of dronedarone is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Duvelisib: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of duvelisib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and duvelisib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Ebola Zaire Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Elbasvir; Grazoprevir: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of grazoprevir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and grazoprevir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Elexacaftor; tezacaftor; ivacaftor: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of ivacaftor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and ivacaftor a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Elinzanetant: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of elinzanetant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and elinzanetant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and cobicistat due to increased ixabepilone exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of ixabepilone to 20 mg/m2. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ixabepilone exposure by 79%.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and cobicistat due to increased ixabepilone exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of ixabepilone to 20 mg/m2. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ixabepilone exposure by 79%.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and encorafenib due to decreased plasma concentrations of ixabepilone, which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, gradually increase the dose of ixabepilone as tolerated from 40 mg/m2 to 60 mg/m2 and increase the infusion time to 4 hours; monitor carefully for ixabepilone-related toxicities. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased ixabepilone exposure by 43%.
Ensitrelvir: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and ensitrelvir due to increased ixabepilone exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of ixabepilone to 20 mg/m2. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ixabepilone exposure by 79%.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and enzalutamide due to decreased plasma concentrations of ixabepilone, which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, gradually increase the dose of ixabepilone as tolerated from 40 mg/m2 to 60 mg/m2 and infuse over 4 hours; monitor carefully for ixabepilone-related toxicities. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased ixabepilone exposure by 43%.
Erythromycin: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of erythromycin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and erythromycin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Everolimus: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of everolimus is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and everolimus is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Fedratinib: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of fedratinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and fedratinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Finerenone: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of finerenone at a dose of at least 40 mg/day is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and finerenone at a dose of at least 40 mg/day is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Fluconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of fluconazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and fluconazole is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
fluvoxaMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of fluvoxamine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and fluvoxamine is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Fosamprenavir: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of fosamprenavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and fosamprenavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and fosphenytoin due to decreased plasma concentrations of ixabepilone, which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, gradually increase the dose of ixabepilone as tolerated from 40 mg/m2 to 60 mg/m2 and infuse over 4 hours; monitor carefully for ixabepilone-related toxicities. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and fosphenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased ixabepilone exposure by 43%.
Fostamatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of fostamatinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and fostamatinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Gepotidacin: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of gepotidacin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and gepotidacin is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Givinostat: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of givinostat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and givinostat is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Grapefruit juice: (Major) Advise patients to avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice during ixabepilone treatment due to the risk of increased ixabepilone exposure and adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and grapefruit juice is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Idelalisib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and idelalisib due to increased ixabepilone exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of ixabepilone to 20 mg/m2. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and idelalisib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ixabepilone exposure by 79%.
Imatinib: (Major) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of imatinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and imatinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Intranasal Influenza Vaccine: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Isavuconazonium: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of isavuconazonium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and isavuconazonium is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Isoniazid, INH: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of isoniazid is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and isoniazid is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Istradefylline: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of istradefylline is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and istradefylline is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Itraconazole: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and itraconazole due to increased ixabepilone exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of ixabepilone to 20 mg/m2. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and itraconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ixabepilone exposure by 79%.
Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of ivacaftor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and ivacaftor a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Ketoconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ixabepilone with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors like ketoconazole. If coadministration cannot be avoided, reduce the dose of ixabepilone to 20 mg per meters-squared. Monitor for neuropathy, GI symptoms, and myelosuppression. If the strong inhibitor is discontinued, increase the ixabepilone dose (at 1 week after discontinuing the inhibitor) to that was used before starting the strong inhibitor. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased ixabepilone exposure by 79%.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and clarithromycin due to increased ixabepilone exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of ixabepilone to 20 mg/m2. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ixabepilone exposure by 79%.
Lapatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of lapatinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and lapatinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Larotrectinib: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of larotrectinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and larotrectinib a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Lazertinib: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of lazertinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and lazertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Lefamulin: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of oral lefamulin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and oral lefamulin is a weak CYP3A inhibitor; an interaction is not expected with intravenous lefamulin.
Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of lenacapavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Letermovir: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of letermovir WITHOUT concomitant cyclosporine is necessary. Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and letermovir WITH concomitant cyclosporine; if unavoidable, reduce the dose of ixabepilone to 20 mg/m2. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and letermovir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor; however, the combined effect of letermovir and cyclosporine on CYP3A4 substrates may be similar to a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Levamlodipine: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Levoketoconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ixabepilone with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors like ketoconazole. If coadministration cannot be avoided, reduce the dose of ixabepilone to 20 mg per meters-squared. Monitor for neuropathy, GI symptoms, and myelosuppression. If the strong inhibitor is discontinued, increase the ixabepilone dose (at 1 week after discontinuing the inhibitor) to that was used before starting the strong inhibitor. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased ixabepilone exposure by 79%.
Live Vaccines: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and lonafarnib due to increased ixabepilone exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of ixabepilone to 20 mg/m2. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ixabepilone exposure by 79%.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and ritonavir due to increased ixabepilone exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of ixabepilone to 20 mg/m2. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ixabepilone exposure by 79%.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and lumacaftor; ivacaftor due to decreased plasma concentrations of ixabepilone, which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, gradually increase the dose of ixabepilone as tolerated from 40 mg/m2 to 60 mg/m2 and infuse over 4 hours; monitor carefully for ixabepilone-related toxicities. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased ixabepilone exposure by 43%. (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of ivacaftor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and ivacaftor a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and lumacaftor; ivacaftor due to decreased plasma concentrations of ixabepilone, which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, gradually increase the dose of ixabepilone as tolerated from 40 mg/m2 to 60 mg/m2 and infuse over 4 hours; monitor carefully for ixabepilone-related toxicities. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased ixabepilone exposure by 43%.
Maribavir: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of maribavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and maribavir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Mavorixafor: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of mavorixafor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and mavorixafor is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Measles Virus; Mumps Virus; Rubella Virus; Varicella Virus Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Measles/Mumps/Rubella Vaccines, MMR: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Methohexital: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and barbiturates due to decreased plasma concentrations of ixabepilone, which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, gradually increase the dose of ixabepilone as tolerated from 40 mg/m2 to 60 mg/m2 and infuse over 4 hours; monitor carefully for ixabepilone-related toxicities. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased ixabepilone exposure by 43%.
metroNIDAZOLE: (Moderate) Monitor for a disulfiram-like reaction if concomitant use of ixabepilone and metronidazole is necessary. Disulfiram-like side effects, including nausea, vomiting, tachycardia, headache, flushing, and abdominal cramps, have been observed following recreational alcohol consumption in patients receiving metronidazole. Ixabepilone is formulated with ethanol, and each 40 mg/m2 dose delivers approximately 8.4 g/m2 of ethanol. Clinical practice guidelines suggest that the risk for disulfiram-like side effects with metronidazole is minimal as metronidazole does not inhibit acetaldehyde dehydrogenase and previously observed adverse effects are equally attributable to either alcohol or metronidazole alone.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and mifepristone due to increased ixabepilone exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of ixabepilone to 20 mg/m2. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and mifepristone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ixabepilone exposure by 79%.
Mitotane: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and mitotane due to decreased plasma concentrations of ixabepilone, which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, gradually increase the dose of ixabepilone as tolerated from 40 mg/m2 to 60 mg/m2 and infuse over 4 hours; monitor carefully for ixabepilone-related toxicities. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased ixabepilone exposure by 43%.
Nefazodone: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and nefazodone due to increased ixabepilone exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of ixabepilone to 20 mg/m2. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and nefazodone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ixabepilone exposure by 79%.
Nelfinavir: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and nelfinavir due to increased ixabepilone exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of ixabepilone to 20 mg/m2. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and nelfinavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ixabepilone exposure by 79%.
Netupitant, Fosnetupitant; Palonosetron: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of netupitant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and netupitant is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
NiCARdipine: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of nicardipine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and nicardipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Nilotinib: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of nilotinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and nilotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and ritonavir due to increased ixabepilone exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of ixabepilone to 20 mg/m2. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ixabepilone exposure by 79%.
Nirogacestat: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of nirogacestat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and nirogacestat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Osilodrostat: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of osilodrostat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and osilodrostat is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Palbociclib: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of palbociclib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and palbociclib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
PAZOPanib: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of pazopanib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and pazopanib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
PENTobarbital: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and barbiturates due to decreased plasma concentrations of ixabepilone, which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, gradually increase the dose of ixabepilone as tolerated from 40 mg/m2 to 60 mg/m2 and infuse over 4 hours; monitor carefully for ixabepilone-related toxicities. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased ixabepilone exposure by 43%.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and barbiturates due to decreased plasma concentrations of ixabepilone, which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, gradually increase the dose of ixabepilone as tolerated from 40 mg/m2 to 60 mg/m2 and infuse over 4 hours; monitor carefully for ixabepilone-related toxicities. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased ixabepilone exposure by 43%.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and barbiturates due to decreased plasma concentrations of ixabepilone, which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, gradually increase the dose of ixabepilone as tolerated from 40 mg/m2 to 60 mg/m2 and infuse over 4 hours; monitor carefully for ixabepilone-related toxicities. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased ixabepilone exposure by 43%.
Phenytoin: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and phenytoin due to decreased plasma concentrations of ixabepilone, which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, gradually increase the dose of ixabepilone as tolerated from 40 mg/m2 to 60 mg/m2 and infuse over 4 hours; monitor carefully for ixabepilone-related toxicities. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased ixabepilone exposure by 43%.
Pirtobrutinib: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of pirtobrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and pirtobrutinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Posaconazole: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and posaconazole due to increased ixabepilone exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of ixabepilone to 20 mg/m2. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and posaconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ixabepilone exposure by 79%.
Primaquine: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of primaquine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and primaquine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Primidone: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and barbiturates due to decreased plasma concentrations of ixabepilone, which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, gradually increase the dose of ixabepilone as tolerated from 40 mg/m2 to 60 mg/m2 and infuse over 4 hours; monitor carefully for ixabepilone-related toxicities. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased ixabepilone exposure by 43%.
Ranolazine: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of ranolazine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and ranolazine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Relacorilant: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and relacorilant due to increased ixabepilone exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of ixabepilone to 20 mg/m2. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ixabepilone exposure by 79%.
Remdesivir: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of remdesivir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and remdesivir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Ribociclib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and ribociclib due to increased ixabepilone exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of ixabepilone to 20 mg/m2. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ixabepilone exposure by 79%.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and ribociclib due to increased ixabepilone exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of ixabepilone to 20 mg/m2. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ixabepilone exposure by 79%.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and rifampin due to decreased plasma concentrations of ixabepilone, which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, gradually increase the dose of ixabepilone as tolerated from 40 mg/m2 to 60 mg/m2 and infuse over 4 hours; monitor carefully for ixabepilone-related toxicities. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with rifampin decreased ixabepilone exposure by 43%.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and rifapentine due to decreased plasma concentrations of ixabepilone, which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, gradually increase the dose of ixabepilone as tolerated from 40 mg/m2 to 60 mg/m2 and infuse over 4 hours; monitor carefully for ixabepilone-related toxicities. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased ixabepilone exposure by 43%.
Rilzabrutinib: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of rilzabrutinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Ritlecitinib: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of ritlecitinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and ritonavir due to increased ixabepilone exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of ixabepilone to 20 mg/m2. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ixabepilone exposure by 79%.
Rotavirus Vaccine: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Rucaparib: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of rucaparib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and rucaparib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Saquinavir: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and saquinavir due to increased ixabepilone exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of ixabepilone to 20 mg/m2. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and saquinavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ixabepilone exposure by 79%.
SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) vaccines: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) mRNA Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) Recombinant Spike Protein Nanoparticle Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
Secobarbital: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and barbiturates due to decreased plasma concentrations of ixabepilone, which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, gradually increase the dose of ixabepilone as tolerated from 40 mg/m2 to 60 mg/m2 and infuse over 4 hours; monitor carefully for ixabepilone-related toxicities. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased ixabepilone exposure by 43%.
Selpercatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of selpercatinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and selpercatinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Sevabertinib: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of sevabertinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and sevabertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Smallpox and Monkeypox Vaccine, Live, Nonreplicating: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Smallpox and Mpox (Vaccinia) Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Sodium Iodide I-131: (Moderate) Monitor for bone marrow suppression during concomitant use of sodium iodide I-131 and antineoplastic agents. Concomitant use of bone marrow depressants may enhance the depression of the hematopoietic system caused by the use of large doses of sodium iodide I-131.
Spironolactone: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of spironolactone is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and spironolactone is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of spironolactone is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and spironolactone is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and St. John's Wort due to decreased plasma concentrations of ixabepilone, which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, gradually increase the dose of ixabepilone as tolerated from 40 mg/m2 to 60 mg/m2 and infuse over 4 hours; monitor carefully for ixabepilone-related toxicities. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and St. John's Wort is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased ixabepilone exposure by 43%.
Streptogramins: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of dalfopristin; quinupristin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and dalfopristin; quinupristin is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of amlodipine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Tezacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of ivacaftor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and ivacaftor a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Ticagrelor: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of ticagrelor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and ticagrelor is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Tipranavir: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and tipranavir due to increased ixabepilone exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of ixabepilone to 20 mg/m2. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and tipranavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ixabepilone exposure by 79%.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of verapamil is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Treosulfan: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of treosulfan is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and treosulfan is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Trofinetide: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of trofinetide is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and trofinetide is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Tuberculin Purified Protein Derivative, PPD: (Moderate) Immunosuppressives may decrease the immunological response to tuberculin purified protein derivative, PPD. This suppressed reactivity can persist for up to 6 weeks after treatment discontinuation. Consider deferring the skin test until completion of the immunosuppressive therapy.
Tucatinib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and tucatinib due to increased ixabepilone exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of ixabepilone to 20 mg/m2. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ixabepilone exposure by 79%.
Typhoid Vaccine: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Varicella Virus Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Vepdegestrant: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of vepdegestrant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and vepdegestrant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Verapamil: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of verapamil is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Viloxazine: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of viloxazine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and viloxazine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Vonoprazan: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of vonoprazan is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and vonoprazan is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of vonoprazan is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and vonoprazan is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and clarithromycin due to increased ixabepilone exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of ixabepilone to 20 mg/m2. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ixabepilone exposure by 79%. (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of vonoprazan is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and vonoprazan is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Voriconazole: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and voriconazole due to increased ixabepilone exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of ixabepilone to 20 mg/m2. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and voriconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased ixabepilone exposure by 79%.
Voxelotor: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use voxelotor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Xanomeline; Trospium: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of xanomeline is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and xanomeline is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Yellow Fever Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Live virus vaccines should generally not be administered to an immunosuppressed patient. Live virus vaccines may induce the illness they are intended to prevent and are generally contraindicated for use during immunosuppressive treatment. The immune response of the immunocompromised patient to vaccines may be decreased, even despite alternate vaccination schedules or more frequent booster doses. If immunization is necessary, choose an alternative to live vaccination, or, consider a delay or change in the immunization schedule. Practitioners should refer to the most recent CDC guidelines regarding vaccination of patients who are receiving drugs that adversely affect the immune system.
Zafirlukast: (Major) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of zafirlukast is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and zafirlukast is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Ziftomenib: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of ziftomenib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and ziftomenib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  In clinical studies, peripheral neuropathy was one of the most frequently reported adverse reactions and most common reason for therapy discontinuation. Sensory neuropathy was reported in 62% of patients who received ixabepilone monotherapy (14% had grade 3/4 neuropathy) and in 65% of patients who received combination therapy with ixabepilone and capecitabine (21% had grade 3/4 neuropathy). Motor neuropathy was reported in 10% of monotherapy recipients and in 16% of combination therapy recipients. Grade 3 motor neuropathy occurred in 1% on monotherapy and in 5% on combination therapy. The median number of treatment cycles to grade 3/4 neuropathy onset was 4; most (75%) cases of new onset or worsening neuropathy occurred during the first 3 cycles. Monitor patients for symptoms of neuropathy such as burning sensation, hyperesthesia, hypoesthesia, paresthesia, discomfort, or neuropathic pain. Patients experiencing new or worsening symptoms may require a reduction or delay in the ixabepilone dose (see Dosage). In clinical trials, 80—87% of patients with peripheral neuropathy had improvement or no worsening of their neuropathy after ixabepilone dose reduction. Among patients with grade 3/4 neuropathy, 76—79% had documented improvement to baseline or grade 1 severity 12 weeks after onset; the median time to improvement was 6 weeks for combination therapy recipients and 4.6 weeks for monotherapy recipients.Nervous system-related adverse reactions reported in clinical trials include headache (11% monotherapy and 8% combination), dysgeusia (6% and 12%), dizziness (7% and 8%), insomnia (5% and 9%), impaired cognition, syncope, cerebral hemorrhage, abnormal coordination, and lethargy.Myelosuppression, usually in the form of neutropenia, leukopenia, anemia, and thrombocytopenia, is a dose-limiting toxicity of ixabepilone. Grade 3 neutropenia occurred in 31% and grade 4 neutropenia occurred in 23% of patients who received ixabepilone monotherapy. Similar percentages of patients who received both ixabepilone and capecitabine had grade 3 neutropenia (32%) or grade 4 neutropenia (36%). Grade 3 leukopenia was reported in 36% of monotherapy patients and in 41% of combination patients; grade 4 leukopenia was reported in 13% of monotherapy patients and in 16% of combination patients. Grade 3 anemia occurred in 6% and grade 4 anemia occurred in 2% of patients who received ixabepilone monotherapy. Similar percentages of patients who received both ixabepilone and capecitabine had grade 3 anemia (8%) or grade 4 anemia (2%). Grade 3 thrombocytopenia occurred in 5% and grade 4 thrombocytopenia occurred in 2% of patients who received ixabepilone monotherapy. Similar percentages of patients who received both ixabepilone and capecitabine had grade 3 thrombocytopenia (5%) or grade 4 thrombocytopenia (3%). Febrile neutropenia occurred in 3% of monotherapy patients and in 5% of combination patients. Grade 3 febrile neutropenia was reported in 3% of monotherapy patients. Of the patients who received combination therapy, grade 3/4 febrile neutropenia was reported in 4%. Neutropenia-related death occurred in 1.9% of 414 patients with normal or mildly impaired hepatic function who got both ixabepilone and capecitabine. Of 17 people with an AST or ALT > 2.5 x ULN or bilirubin > 1.5 x ULN who got both ixabepilone and capecitabine, 5 had a neutropenia-related death; ixabepilone in combination with capecitabine is contraindicated for use by patients with an AST or ALT > 2.5 x ULN or bilirubin > 1 x ULN. Neutropenia-related death occurred in 0.4% of 240 ixabepilone monotherapy recipients. Ixabepilone is contraindicated for use by patients with a neutrophil count < 1500 cells/mm3 or a platelet count < 100,000 cells/mm3. Obtain frequent peripheral blood cell counts; dosage reductions may be needed for neutropenia or thrombocytopenia (see Dosage).Coagulopathy, lymphopenia, thrombosis, embolism, hemorrhage, hypovolemic shock, and vasculitis have been reported with ixabepilone administration as monotherapy or in combination with another chemotherapeutic agent; however, frequencies were not reported. Hot flashes/flushes have been reported in 6% of patients with monotherapy and in 5% with combination therapy.In clinical trials, severe hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis (anaphylactoid reactions) have occurred in 9 of 1323 patients. Of these 9 patients, 3 were able to be retreated with ixabepilone. Hypersensitivity reactions such as flushing, rash (unspecified), dyspnea, and bronchospasm were reported in 5% of patients who received monotherapy and in 2% who received combination therapy; 1% of patients in both groups developed a grade 3 hypersensitivity reaction. Stop the ixabepilone infusion and administer aggressive supportive treatment if a severe hypersensitivity reaction occurs. Rash (unspecified) has been reported in 9% of monotherapy patients and in 17% of combination therapy patients. Erythema multiforme has also been reported in ixabepilone studies. Premedication to help prevent a hypersensitivity reaction is needed (see Administration).Nausea/vomiting is common with ixabepilone. Nausea occurred in 42% of patients on ixabepilone monotherapy and in 53% of patients on combination therapy with ixabepilone and capecitabine therapy; 2% and 3%, respectively, experienced grade 3 nausea. Vomiting was reported in 29% (1% with grade 3) and in 39% (4% with grade 3) of the monotherapy and combination therapy patients, respectively. Additional gastrointestinal related adverse reactions that were reported in clinical trials include stomatitis/mucositis (29% monotherapy vs. 31% combination therapy), diarrhea (22% vs. 44%), constipation (16% vs. 22%), abdominal pain (13% vs. 24%), gastroesophageal reflux (6% vs. 7%), ileus, colitis, impaired gastric emptying, esophagitis, dysphagia, gastritis, and gastrointestinal hemorrhage. Anorexia has been reported in 19% of patients on monotherapy and in 34% of patients on combination therapy and weight loss occurred in 6% and 11% of patients, respectively. Dehydration occurred in 2% of monotherapy and in 5% of combination therapy (2% with grade 3) patients. Hyponatremia, metabolic acidosis, hypokalemia, and hypovolemia have also been reported during ixabepilone clinical trials; frequency not provided.Infection has been reported to occur in patients receiving ixabepilone therapy. The following infections have been reported: upper respiratory tract (6% monotherapy vs. 4% combination therapy), sepsis, pneumonia, neutropenic, urinary tract, bacterial, enterocolitis, laryngitis, and lower respiratory tract.Various dermatologic adverse reactions have been reported during ixabepilone clinical studies. Alopecia (48% monotherapy vs. 31% combination therapy), nail disorder (9% vs. 24%), palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (hand and foot syndrome) (8% vs. 64%y), pruritus (6% vs. 5%), skin exfoliation (2% vs. 5%), and skin hyperpigmentation (2% and 11%) have all been reported in clinical studies.Dyspnea has been reported in 9% of patients receiving ixabepilone monotherapy and in 7% of patients receiving combination therapy with ixabepilone and capecitabine. Cough has been reported in 2% and 6% of patients, respectively. Pneumonitis, hypoxia, respiratory failure, acute pulmonary edema, dysphonia, and pharyngolaryngeal pain have all been reported; frequency not known.Myalgia or arthralgia have been reported in 49% of patients receiving ixabepilone monotherapy and in 39% of patients receiving combination therapy with ixabepilone and capecitabine. Musculoskeletal pain has been reported in 20% and 23% of patients on monotherapy and combination therapy, respectively. Muscular weakness, muscle spasms, and trismus have all been reported during ixabepilone studies; frequency not known.Chest pain (unspecified) has been reported in 5% of patients receiving ixabepilone monotherapy and in 4% of patients receiving combination therapy with ixabepilone and capecitabine. Additional cardiac-related adverse reactions reported during clinical trials include myocardial infarction, hypotension, supraventricular arrhythmia, left ventricular dysfunction, angina pectoris, atrial flutter, cardiomyopathy, and myocardial ischemia. Among patients who received ixabepilone and capecitabine, 1.9% had myocardial ischemia or ventricular dysfunction whereas 0.3% of patients who got capecitabine monotherapy had an event. Further, supraventricular arrhythmias were observed in the combination arm (0.5%) and not in the capecitabine alone arm. If cardiac ischemia or impaired cardiac function occurs, consider ixabepilone discontinuation.Acute hepatic failure, jaundice, and elevated hepatic enzymes, specifically transaminases, alkaline phosphatase, and gamma-glutamyltransferase have been reported in ixabepilone studies; frequency not known. Ixabepilone may be contraindicated or a reduced dose may be needed for patients with impaired hepatic function (see Contraindications).Additional adverse reactions reported during ixabepilone clinical trials include increased lacrimation (4% monotherapy vs. 5% combination therapy), fatigue/asthenia (56% vs. 60%), edema (9% vs. 8%), fever (8% vs. 10%), and pain (8% vs. 9%). Nephrolithiasis, renal failure (unspecified), and chills have also been reported.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    dysesthesia, hyperesthesia, hypoesthesia, hyporeflexia, neuritis, neurotoxicity, paresthesias, peripheral neuropathy
    General Information
    Peripheral neuropathy occurred in 63% to 67% (grade 3 or 4, 14% to 23%) of breast cancer patients treated with ixabepilone as monotherapy or in combination with capecitabine in clinical trials, including sensory neuropathy (62% to 65%; grade 3, 14% to 21%) and motor neuropathy (10% to 16%; grade 3, 1% to 5%); of these patients, 24% to 27% had pre-existing grade 1 neuropathy. Peripheral sensory neuropathy included areflexia, burning sensation, dysesthesia, hyperesthesia, hypoesthesia, hyporeflexia, neuralgia, neuritis, neurotoxicity, paresthesias, and pallanesthesia; peripheral motor neuropathy included multifocal motor neuropathy and neuromuscular toxicity. Severe (grade 3 or 4) neuropathy occurred after a median of 4 cycles of therapy. Closely monitor patients with diabetes mellitus or a history of peripheral neuropathy for symptoms of neuropathy during treatment with ixabepilone (e.g., burning sensations, hyperesthesia, hypoesthesia, paresthesia, discomfort, or neuropathic pain), as these patients may be at increased risk of severe neuropathy according to a pooled analysis of 1,540 cancer patients. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary depending on the severity and persistence of peripheral neuropathy; most patients with peripheral neuropathy (80% to 87%) had stable or improved neuropathy after dose reduction. Additionally, abnormal coordination was reported in patients treated with ixabepilone as monotherapy or in combination with other therapies in clinical studies (n = 1,323).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral neuropathy
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dysesthesia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      hyperesthesia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hypoesthesia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      hyporeflexia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      neuritis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      paresthesias
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      neurotoxicity
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    dizziness, dysgeusia, headache, syncope
    General Information
    Dysgeusia (6% to 12%), headache (8% to 11%; grade 3, less than 1%), and dizziness (7% to 8%; grade 3, 1% or less) occurred in breast cancer patients treated with ixabepilone as monotherapy or in combination with capecitabine in 2 clinical trials (n = 495). Additionally, syncope was reported in patients treated with ixabepilone as monotherapy or in combination with other therapies in clinical studies (n = 1,323).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dysgeusia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      syncope
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    anemia, coagulopathy, leukopenia, lymphopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia
    General Information
    Severe, life-threatening, or fatal dose-dependent bone marrow suppression can occur in patients treated with ixabepilone, including most commonly (greater than 40% each) neutropenia, leukopenia, neutropenia, and thrombocytopenia. Neutropenia (grade 3, 31% to 32%; grade 4, 23% to 36%) is the most common severe hematologic adverse reaction, followed by leukopenia (grade 3, 36% to 41%; grade 4, 13% to 16%), anemia (grade 3, 6% to 8%; grade 4, 2%), and thrombocytopenia (grade 3, 5%; grade 3, 2% to 3%) reported in breast cancer patients treated with ixabepilone as monotherapy or in combination with capecitabine; 17% to 20% of patients received growth factor support with G-CSF or GM-CSF. Grade 3 neutropenic fever occurred in 3% to 5% of breast cancer patients who received ixabepilone and grade 4 neutropenic fever occurred in 3% to 4% of these patients; 1% of patients (n = 3) who received combination therapy with capecitabine experienced fatal neutropenic fever, while 9 other neutropenia-related deaths occurred. Neutropenia-related deaths occurred in 0.4% of patients who received ixabepilone monotherapy, with none occurring in patients with AST or ALT greater than 2.5 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) or bilirubin greater than 1.5 times ULN (n = 24). In patients treated with ixabepilone in combination with capecitabine, neutropenic fever occurred more often in patients 65 years of age and over compared to those younger than 65 (9% vs. 3%); neutropenia-related deaths were more common in patients with hepatic impairment (AST or ALT greater than 2.5 times ULN or bilirubin greater than 1.5 times ULN; n = 17) compared with those who had normal hepatic function (n = 414) (29% vs. 1.9%). Coagulopathy, lymphopenia, and neutropenic infection were also reported with ixabepilone treatment across clinical trials (n = 1,323). Ixabepilone is contraindicated in patients with neutropenia (ANC less than 1,500 cells/mm3) or thrombocytopenia (platelets less than 100,000/mm3). Frequently monitor complete blood counts in patients receiving ixabepilone. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary for patients who develop myelosuppression.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      leukopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      neutropenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      coagulopathy
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      lymphopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    abdominal pain, anorexia, colitis, constipation, diarrhea, dysphagia, esophagitis, gastritis, gastroesophageal reflux, ileus, nausea, stomatitis, vomiting, weight loss
    General Information
    Nausea (42% to 53%; grade 3, 2% to 3%), vomiting (29% to 39%; grade 3, 1% to 4%), stomatitis/mucositis (29% to 31%; grade 3 or 4, 4% to 6%), anorexia (19% to 34%; grade 3, 2% to 3%), constipation (16% to 22%; grade 3, 2% or less), abdominal pain (13% to 24%; grade 3, 2%), weight loss (6% to 11%), and gastroesophageal reflux (6% to 7%; grade 3, 1% or less) occurred in breast cancer patients treated with ixabepilone as monotherapy or in combination with capecitabine; diarrhea was more common in patients receiving combination therapy compared to monotherapy (44% vs. 22%; grade 3, 6% vs. 1%). Additionally, ileus, colitis, impaired gastric emptying, esophagitis, dysphagia, and gastritis were reported in patients who received ixabepilone as monotherapy or in combination with other therapies (n = 1,323) across clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      colitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dysphagia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      esophagitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      gastritis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      gastroesophageal reflux
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      stomatitis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      weight loss
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      ileus
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    enterocolitis, infection, laryngitis
    General Information
    Mild upper respiratory infection occurred in 4% to 6% of breast cancer patients treated with ixabepilone as monotherapy or in combination with capecitabine. Sepsis, pneumonia, generalized infection, neutropenic infection (5% to 6%), urinary tract infection, enterocolitis, laryngitis, and lower respiratory tract infection were reported in 1,323 patients treated with ixabepilone as monotherapy or in combination with other therapies in clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      enterocolitis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      laryngitis
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    alopecia, erythema multiforme, palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (hand and foot syndrome), pruritus, rash, skin hyperpigmentation
    General Information
    Rash (9% to 17%; grade 3, 1% to 2%), pruritus (5% to 6%; grade 3, 1% or less), and skin exfoliation (2% to 5%; grade 3, less than 1%) occurred similarly in breast cancer patients treated with ixabepilone monotherapy and patients who received ixabepilone in combination with capecitabine. Alopecia occurred in 31% of patients receiving combination therapy and in 48% of patients receiving monotherapy. Nail disorders (24% vs. 9%; grade 3, 2% vs. 0%), palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (hand and foot syndrome) (64% vs. 8%; grade 3, 18% vs. 2%), and skin hyperpigmentation (11% vs. 2%) were more common in patients receiving combination therapy; in patients receiving combination therapy, grade 3 or 4 palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia was more common in patients 65 years and older compared to those younger than 65 (27% vs. 20%). Additionally, erythema multiforme was reported in patients treated with ixabepilone as monotherapy or in combination with other therapies (n = 1,323) in clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      alopecia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (hand and foot syndrome)
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      skin hyperpigmentation
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      erythema multiforme
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    edema
    General Information
    Edema occurred in 8% to 9% (grade 3, 1% or less) of breast cancer patients treated with ixabepilone as monotherapy or in combination with capecitabine.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      edema
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    cough, dysphonia, dyspnea, hypoxia, pneumonitis, pulmonary edema
    General Information
    Dyspnea (7% to 9%; grade 3 or 4, 1%) and cough (2% to 6%) occurred in breast cancer patients treated with ixabepilone as monotherapy or in combination with capecitabine in 2 clinical trials (n = 495). Additionally, pneumonitis, hypoxia, respiratory failure, acute pulmonary edema, dysphonia, and pharyngolaryngeal pain reported in patients treated with ixabepilone as monotherapy or in combination with other therapies in clinical studies (n = 1,323).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dysphonia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      pneumonitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      pulmonary edema
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypoxia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    arthralgia, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, trismus, weakness
    General Information
    Myalgia/arthralgia (39% to 49%; grade 3, 8%), musculoskeletal pain (20% to 23%; grade 3, 2% to 3%), and generalized pain (8% to 9%; grade 3, 1% to 3%) occurred in breast cancer patients treated with ixabepilone as monotherapy or in combination with capecitabine in 2 clinical trials (n = 495). Additionally, muscular weakness, muscle spasms, and trismus were reported in patients treated with ixabepilone as monotherapy or in combination with other therapies in clinical studies (n = 1,323).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      musculoskeletal pain
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      myalgia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      trismus
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      weakness
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    angina, atrial flutter, cardiomyopathy, chest pain (unspecified), hypotension, myocardial infarction
    General Information
    Cardiac adverse reactions including myocardial ischemia and ventricular dysfunction occurred in 0.3% of patients receiving ixabepilone monotherapy and in 1.9% of those receiving ixabepilone in combination with capecitabine; supraventricular arrhythmias were observed in 0.5% of patients receiving combination therapy. Chest pain (unspecified) was also reported in 4% to 5% of patients (grade 3, 1%). Additionally, hypotension, myocardial infarction, supraventricular arrhythmia, left ventricular dysfunction, angina pectoris, atrial flutter, and cardiomyopathy were reported in 1,323 patients treated with ixabepilone as monotherapy or in combination with other therapies in clinical trials. Closely monitor patients with a history of cardiac disease during treatment with ixabepilone. Cardiac adverse reactions including myocardial ischemia and ventricular dysfunction have occurred in patients receiving ixabepilone as monotherapy and in combination with capecitabine. Consider discontinuation of ixabepilone in patients who develop cardiac ischemia or impaired cardiac function.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      angina
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      atrial flutter
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      cardiomyopathy
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      chest pain (unspecified)
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      myocardial infarction
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatic failure, jaundice
    General Information
    Elevated hepatic enzymes including increased alkaline phosphatase and increased gamma-glutamyltransferase, acute hepatic failure, and jaundice were reported in patients treated with ixabepilone as monotherapy or in combination with other treatments in clinical trials (n = 1,323). Monitor liver function tests at baseline and periodically thereafter; a dose reduction or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary depending on the degree of hepatic impairment.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hepatic failure
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      jaundice
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    radiation recall reaction
    General Information
    In postmarketing surveillance, radiation recall reaction has been reported with ixabepilone use.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      radiation recall reaction
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    dehydration, hypokalemia, hyponatremia, hypovolemia, metabolic acidosis
    General Information
    Dehydration occurred in 2% to 5% (grade 3 or 4, 1% to 2%) of breast cancer patients treated with ixabepilone as monotherapy or in combination with capecitabine in 2 clinical trials (n = 495). Hypovolemia and hypovolemic shock were reported in patients treated with ixabepilone as monotherapy or in combination with other therapies in clinical studies (n = 1,323); additional metabolism and nutrition disorders reported in these trials include hyponatremia, hypokalemia, and metabolic acidosis.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dehydration
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypokalemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hyponatremia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hypovolemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      metabolic acidosis
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    insomnia
    General Information
    Insomnia occurred in 5% to 9% (grade 3, less than 1%) of breast cancer patients treated with ixabepilone as monotherapy or in combination with capecitabine in clinical trials. Additionally, cognitive disorders were reported in patients treated with ixabepilone as monotherapy or in combination with other therapies in clinical studies (n = 1,323).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    lacrimation
    General Information
    Mildly increased lacrimation occurred in 4% to 5% of breast cancer patients treated with ixabepilone as monotherapy or in combination with capecitabine.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      lacrimation
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    thromboembolism, thrombosis
    General Information
    Thrombosis and thromboembolism have been reported in patients who received ixabepilone as monotherapy or as part of combination chemotherapy in phase 2 and 3 studies (n = 1,323).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      thromboembolism
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      thrombosis
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    bleeding, GI bleeding, intracranial bleeding, stroke
    General Information
    Hemorrhage (bleeding), GI bleeding, and intracranial bleeding (stroke) were reported in patients treated with ixabepilone as monotherapy or in combination with other therapies in clinical studies (n = 1,323).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      bleeding
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      stroke
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      GI bleeding
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      intracranial bleeding
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    vasculitis
    General Information
    Vasculitis occurred in patients treated with ixabepilone as monotherapy or in combination with other therapies (n = 1,323) in clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      vasculitis
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    chills, fever
    General Information
    Fever occurred in 8% to 10% (grade 3 or 4, 1%) of breast cancer patients treated with ixabepilone as monotherapy or in combination with capecitabine. Chills was also reported in patients treated with ixabepilone as monotherapy or in combination with other therapies (n = 1,323) in clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      chills
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    asthenia, fatigue, lethargy
    General Information
    Fatigue/asthenia occurred in 56% to 60% (grade 3 or 4, 13% to 16%) of breast cancer patients treated with ixabepilone as monotherapy or in combination with capecitabine in 2 clinical trials (n = 495). The incidence of severe (grade 3 or 4) fatigue (16% vs. 12%) and asthenia (11% vs. 6%) was higher in patients age 65 years and older compared to those younger than 65. Additionally, lethargy was reported in patients treated with ixabepilone as monotherapy or in combination with other therapies in clinical studies (n = 1,323).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      lethargy
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    hot flashes
    General Information
    Mild hot flashes occurred in 5% to 6% of breast cancer patients treated with ixabepilone as monotherapy or in combination with capecitabine.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hot flashes
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anaphylactoid reactions, bronchospasm, flushing
    General Information
    Serious hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylactoid reactions occurred in 1% of patients treated with ixabepilone across clinical trials (n = 1,323) and in 2% to 5% (grade 3, 1%) of breast cancer patients treated with ixabepilone as monotherapy or in combination with capecitabine. Across clinical trials, 3 of 9 patients who experienced severe hypersensitivity reactions were able to be rechallenged with ixabepilone. Ixabepilone is contraindicated in patients who have a history of severe hypersensitivity reaction to products containing Cremophor El or its derivatives (polyoxyethylated castor oil hypersensitivity). Due to the risk of serious hypersensitivity reactions or anaphylaxis, premedicate all patients with both an H1 and H2 blocker approximately 1 hour before ixabepilone administration; closely observe hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., bronchospasm, flushing). If a severe hypersensitivity reaction occurs, stop the infusion and give supportive treatment as indicated (e.g., epinephrine, corticosteroids); premedicate with dexamethasone in addition to an H1 and H2 blocker before subsequent infusions and consider prolonging the infusion time.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      bronchospasm
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      flushing
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    nephrolithiasis, renal failure
    General Information
    Nephrolithiasis and renal failure were reported in patients treated with ixabepilone as monotherapy or in combination with other therapies (n = 1,323) in clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      nephrolithiasis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      renal failure
      Severity
      Severe

Description
  Text
  Ixabepilone is an epothilone microtubule inhibitor that is indicated in combination with capecitabine for the treatment of metastatic or locally advanced breast cancer after failure of an anthracycline and a taxane in patients for whom further anthracycline therapy is contraindicated, and as monotherapy for patients with metastatic or locally advanced breast cancer after failure of an anthracycline, a taxane, and capecitabine. Its use is contraindicated in patients with neutrophil count less than 1,500 cells/mm3 or platelet count less than 100,000 cells/mm3. Ixabepilone in combination with capecitabine is contraindicated in patients with AST or ALT greater than 2.5 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) or bilirubin greater than 1 times the ULN.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Ixabepilone is a microtubule inhibitor that is a semisynthetic analog of epothilone B. It binds directly to beta-tubulin subunits on the alpha-beta-II and alpha-beta-III microtubules, leading to dynamic instability and blocking cells in the mitotic phase of the cell division cycle, leading to cell death. Ixabepilone possesses low in vitro susceptibility to multiple tumor resistance mechanisms including efflux transporters (e.g., MRP-1 and P-glycoprotein).

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Intravenous Route
    Description
    After administration of a single 40 mg/m2 dose of ixabepilone, the mean peak plasma concentration (Cmax) was 252 ng/mL (CV, 56%), and the mean AUC was 2,143 ng x hour/mL (CV, 48%). Ixabepilone exhibited linear pharmacokinetics at doses of 15 mg/m2 to 57 mg/m2 (0.375 to 1.425 times the approved recommended dose).
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Patients with mild and moderate hepatic impairment had an ixabepilone AUC that was increased by 22% and 30% compared to patients with normal hepatic function. Mild hepatic impairment was defined as bilirubin 1.1 to 1.5 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) and AST less than ULN, or AST greater than ULN but bilirubin less than 1.5 times ULN; moderate hepatic impairment was defined as bilirubin 1.6 to 3 times ULN and any AST. In patients with severe hepatic impairment (bilirubin greater than 3 times ULN and any AST), the AUC of ixabepilone was increased by 81% compared to those with normal hepatic function.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Mild to moderate renal impairment (CrCl greater than 30 mL/min) did not have a clinically meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of ixabepilone.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Age did not have a clinically meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of ixabepilone.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    Gender did not have a clinically meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of ixabepilone.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    Race did not have a clinically meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of ixabepilone.
  Text
  Ixabepilone is administered intravenously. It is 67% to 77% protein bound; the blood to plasma concentration ratios range from 0.65 to 0.85. The mean volume of distribution of ixabepilone at steady-state was greater than 1,000 liters, and it has a terminal elimination half-life of approximately 52 hours. Ixabepilone is primarily eliminated as metabolites in the feces (65%) and the urine (21%); unchanged ixabepilone accounts for approximately 1.6% and 5.6% of a dose in the feces and urine, respectively.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A4
Ixabepilone is metabolized by CYP3A4. In vitro, it is a substrate and inhibitor of P-gp.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
Hazardous Drugs Classification
NIOSH 2024 List: Table 1
Observe and exercise appropriate precautions for handling, preparation, administration, and disposal of hazardous drugs.
Use double chemotherapy gloves and a protective gown. Prepare in a biological safety cabinet or compounding aseptic containment isolator with a closed system drug transfer device. Eye/face and respiratory protection may be needed during preparation and administration.
Emetic Risk
Pediatrics: Doses 3 mg/m2 to 10 mg/m2: Moderate
Adults: Low
Administer routine antiemetic prophylaxis prior to treatment.
Extravasation Risk
Irritant
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Intravenous Administration
      Description
      Administer as an intravenous infusion.
To help prevent hypersensitivity reactions, premedicate all patients an hour before ixabepilone administration with an H1 blocker (e.g., diphenhydramine 50 mg PO or equivalent) and an H2 blocker.
For patients who have experienced a hypersensitivity reaction to ixabepilone, additionally premedicate with a corticosteroid (e.g., dexamethasone 20 mg IV 30 minutes before administration, or orally, 60 minutes before administration). Consider extending the ixabepilone infusion time.
 
Reconstitution:
Ixabepilone is available in a kit that contains 1 vial of ixabepilone powder and 1 vial of diluent.
Remove the kit from the refrigerator and let stand at room temperature for 30 minutes. There may be a white precipitate seen in the diluent vial which should dissolve to form a clear solution once the vial reaches room temperature.
Withdraw all the diluent from its vial and slowly inject it into the vial with ixabepilone powder; do not use any diluent other than what is provided in the kit. Gently swirl and invert the vial until the powder is completely dissolved. The final concentration of the reconstituted solution is 2 mg/mL.
Storage after reconstitution: Dilute as soon as possible; reconstituted solution is stable in the vial (not the syringe) for up to 1 hour at room temperature and room light.
 
Dilution:
Compatible infusion fluids include Lactated Ringer's Injection, Plasma-Lyte A Injection pH 7.4, and pH-adjusted 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection. If using a 250 mL or 500 mL bag of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, add 2 mEq of Sodium Bicarbonate Injection (2 mL of an 8.4% w/v solution or 4 mL of a 4.2% w/v solution) prior to adding ixabepilone to achieve a pH between 6.0 and 9.0.
Use a DEHP-free bag to dilute the appropriate dose of reconstituted ixabepilone with either 250 mL or 500 mL of compatible fluid to a final concentration of 0.2 mg/mL to 0.6 mg/mL. Thoroughly mix the bag by manual rotation.
Storage after dilution: Diluted ixabepilone is stable at room temperature and room light for a maximum of 6 hours including infusion time.
 
Intravenous Infusion:
Infusion containers and administration sets must be DEHP-free.
Administer through an in-line filter of 0.2 to 1.2 micron pore size.
An ixabepilone dose of 40 mg/m2 should be infused over 3 hours.
An ixabepilone dose of 60 mg/m2 should be infused over 4 hours.
    Name
    Injectable Administration
    Description
    Visually inspect parenteral products for particular matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    40 mg/m2 (max BSA 2.2 m2).
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    40 mg/m2 (max BSA 2.2 m2).
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Ixabepilone monotherapy:
NOTE: Recommendations exclude patients with elevated total bilirubin levels due to Gilbert's disease.
AST and ALT 2.5 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) or less and bilirubin at the ULN or less: No dose adjustment necessary.
AST and ALT 10 times ULN or less and bilirubin 1.5 times ULN or less: Reduce the dose of ixabepilone to 32 mg/m2. Base dose adjustments for subsequent cycles on patient tolerance.
AST and ALT 10 times ULN or less and bilirubin 1.6 to 3 times ULN: Reduce the dose of ixabepilone to 20 mg/m2 to 30 mg/m2. Base dose adjustments for subsequent cycles on patient tolerance; if a dose of 20 mg/m2 is tolerated, consider increasing the dose to 30 mg/m2 in subsequent cycles.
AST and ALT greater than 10 time ULN or bilirubin greater than 3 times ULN: Avoid the use of ixabepilone.
 
Ixabepilone plus capecitabine:
AST or ALT greater than 2.5 times ULN or bilirubin greater than ULN: The use of ixabepilone is contraindicated.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
