=== Cilostazol (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 2241)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Cilostazol is a platelet aggregation inhibitor with vasodilating activity.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 200 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): cholelithiasis, colitis, hematemesis, peptic ulcer, back pain, cough, furunculosis, infection, myalgia, pharyngitis, pruritus, rash (unspecified), rhinitis, stevens-johnson syndrome, urticaria, vertigo, xerosis, azotemia, chest pain (unspecified), elevated hepatic enzymes, hot flashes, hyperglycemia, jaundice, asthenia, dyspnea, hematuria, hypoesthesia, influenza, paresthesias

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Cilostazol is contraindicated in patients with hemostatic disorders or active pathologic bleeding, such as GI bleeding, retinal bleeding, retroperitoneal bleeding, or intracranial bleeding. Cilostazol should be used with caution in individuals who have lesions with a propensity to bleed, such as...

Brand Names
  - Pletal

Dosage Forms
  - Cilostazol 100mg Oral tablet
  - Cilostazol 50mg Oral tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        100 mg PO 2 times daily. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.
    Heading
    For the treatment of intermittent claudication
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        A dosage of 100 mg PO twice daily has been suggested. A dosage of 50 mg PO twice daily should be considered for patients concomitantly receiving inhibitors of CYP3A4 or CYP2C19. One trial in 70 patients demonstrated that cilostazol treatment resulted in lower restenosis rates (8.6%) versus those who received aspirin (26.8%); the difference was statistically significant.
    Heading
    For thromboembolism prophylaxis in recipients of a coronary artery stent† following percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI)†, to prevent acute coronary thrombosis (i.e., abrupt closure) and the need for revascularization
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        100 mg PO twice daily. May increase the dose to 150 mg PO twice daily based on clinical response. Co-administration of certain medications may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.
    Heading
    For the treatment of Brugada syndrome†

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Cilostazol is contraindicated in patients with hemostatic disorders or active pathologic bleeding, such as GI bleeding, retinal bleeding, retroperitoneal bleeding, or intracranial bleeding. Cilostazol should be used with caution in individuals who have lesions with a propensity to bleed, such as patients with peptic ulcer disease. Furthermore, caution is advised in using cilostazol in patients at risk of bleeding from surgery, trauma, or other pathologic processes and in patients with thrombocytopenia. If a patient is to undergo elective surgery and platelet aggregation inhibition is not desired, cilostazol should be discontinued at least 4 days prior to the surgery. Cilostazol inhibits platelet aggregation in a reversible manner; platelet aggregability returns to normal within 96 hours of drug discontinuation.
 
In clinical trials within the approved prescribing limits, significant changes in blood pressure were not noted in study subjects with normal blood pressure or controlled hypertension who were receiving cilostazol. However, because cilostazol pharmacologically produces arterial vasodilation in vascular beds it should be used with caution in patients with clinical hypotension because the drug could potentially exacerbate this condition. Orthostatic hypotension has been reported. Because cilostazol may cause dizziness, patients should not perform tasks that require mental alertness, such as driving or operating machinery, until they have determined how cilostazol affects them.
 
Cilostazol and its metabolites are contraindicated in patients with congestive heart failure of any severity, including those in New York Heart Association (NYHA) classes I-IV. Other medications that are phosphodiesterase III inhibitors (i.e., inamrinone, milrinone) have caused decreased survival compared to placebo with outpatient use in persons with class III or IV heart failure. Cilostazol should be used with caution in patients with a history of any cardiac disease, including angina, uncontrolled hypertension, cardiac arrhythmias, myocardial infarction within the past 6 months, valvular heart disease, etc. Cilostazol is not indicated for use in the setting of acute myocardial infarction. Repeated oral administration of cilostazol to dogs has produced cardiovascular lesions that included endocardial hemorrhage, fibrosis of the left ventricle, changes in the smooth muscle of coronary artery walls, and intimal thickening of the coronary arteries. In clinical trials, patients receiving cilostazol were more likely to experience sinus tachycardia, ventricular premature beats, or non-sustained ventricular tachycardia than patients receiving placebo. No reliable information is available at this time on cilostazol's influence on survival in these patients; further studies are needed to assess cilostazol's effects in patients with various types of cardiovascular disease.
 
Cilostazol is classified in FDA pregnancy category C. In rats, cilostazol has been associated with cardiovascular, renal, and skeletal anomalies when administered in doses of 1000 mg/kg/day. Increased incidences of ventricular septal defects and retarded ossification also occurred at doses of 150 mg/kg/day (5 times the maximum recommended human dosage on a systemic exposure basis). When cilostazol was administered during late pregnancy and lactation in rats, doses of 150 mg/kg/day were associated with low birth weights and stillbirths. There are no well-controlled, adequate clinical studies in pregnant women. Some phosphodiesterase III inhibitors are in early investigation for use as contraceptive agents; they appear to block meiosis in the oocyte, preventing oocyte maturation and therefore preventing pregnancy. These actions suggest that cilostazol and related agents could potentially induce reversible infertility. Cilostazol should not be used in women trying to conceive. Administer to pregnant women only if the benefit to the mother would outweigh the potential risks to the fetus.
 
Cilostazol is not recommended to be administered to lactating women who are breast-feeding their infants. Based on animal studies, cilostazol is excreted into breast milk. Because of the potential risk to nursing infants, a decision should be made to discontinue nursing or to discontinue cilostazol treatment, taking into account the importance of the medication to the mother.
 
The safety and efficacy of cilostazol in children has not been established.
 
Elimination of cilostazol's metabolites is altered in patients with severe renal impairment (serum creatinine > 2.5 mg/dl) or renal failure. Since one of cilostazol's metabolites accounts for a significant portion of cilostazol's pharmacologic activity, caution should be used when administering cilostazol to these patients. In manufacturer studies, the pharmacokinetics or pharmacologic effects of cilostazol in patients with mild to moderate renal impairment did not differ from those patients with normal renal function.
 
Cilostazol is hepatically metabolized to both active and inactive metabolites. Since cilostazol has not been studied in patients with moderate or severe hepatic disease or cirrhosis, cilostazol should be used with caution in these populations.
 
Tobacco smoking appears to decrease cilostazol serum concentrations by roughly 20%. There were no statistically significant differences in absolute claudication distance (ACD) at the end of cilostazol treatment during clinical trials in those patients with peripheral arterial disease who were smokers versus those who were not. However, it is unknown if tobacco smoking would contribute to a decreased clinical response to cilostazol when the drug is administered for other uses or when the clinical response to cilostazol is measured by parameters other than ACD. Given the adverse effects that tobacco smoking may have on the peripheral vasculature, patients taking cilostazol should be advised not to smoke.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    bleeding, bleeding disorder
    General Information
    Avoid cilostazol use in individuals with a bleeding disorder or active pathologic bleeding; cilostazol has not been studied in these populations. Cilostazol inhibits platelet aggregation in a reversible manner.
    Headline
    coronary artery disease, heart failure, sigmoid-shaped interventricular septum
    General Information
    Cilostazol is contraindicated in individuals with heart failure of any severity. Cilostazol and several of its metabolites are inhibitors of phosphodiesterase III; other medications that are phosphodiesterase III inhibitors have caused decreased survival compared to placebo in individuals with class III or IV heart failure. Left ventricular outflow tract obstruction has been reported in individuals with sigmoid-shaped interventricular septum. Monitor individuals for new systolic murmur or cardiac symptoms after beginning cilostazol therapy. Additionally, cilostazol may induce tachycardia, palpitation, tachyarrhythmia, or hypotension; individuals with a history of coronary artery disease may be at risk for exacerbations of angina pectoris or myocardial infarction.
    Headline
    hepatic failure
    General Information
    Cilostazol has not been studied in clinical trials in subjects with moderate or severe hepatic impairment or hepatic failure and dosing recommendations cannot be provided for these populations.
    Headline
    dialysis
    General Information
    Cilostazol has not been studied in individuals receiving dialysis. It is unlikely that cilostazol can be removed efficiently by dialysis due to high protein binding.
    Headline
    geriatric
    General Information
    According to the Beers Criteria, cilostazol is considered a potentially inappropriate medication for use in geriatric adults with heart failure and should be avoided due to the potential to increase mortality in older adults with heart failure.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Cilostazol is classified as pregnancy category C. There are no well-controlled, adequate clinical studies in pregnant women. In rats, cilostazol has been associated with cardiovascular, renal, and skeletal anomalies when administered in doses of 1000 mg/kg/day. Increased incidences of ventricular septal defects and retarded ossification also occurred at doses of 150 mg/kg/day (5 times the maximum recommended human dosage on a systemic exposure basis). When cilostazol was administered during late pregnancy and lactation in rats, doses of 150 mg/kg/day were associated with low birth weights and stillbirths.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Cilostazol is excreted into the breast milk of rats. Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse events in breast-feeding infants from cilostazol, discontinue cilostazol or discontinue breast-feeding.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Cilostazol is classified as pregnancy category C. There are no well-controlled, adequate clinical studies in pregnant women. In rats, cilostazol has been associated with cardiovascular, renal, and skeletal anomalies when administered in doses of 1000 mg/kg/day. Increased incidences of ventricular septal defects and retarded ossification also occurred at doses of 150 mg/kg/day (5 times the maximum recommended human dosage on a systemic exposure basis). When cilostazol was administered during late pregnancy and lactation in rats, doses of 150 mg/kg/day were associated with low birth weights and stillbirths.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Cilostazol is excreted into the breast milk of rats. Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse events in breast-feeding infants from cilostazol, discontinue cilostazol or discontinue breast-feeding.

Interactions
Abrocitinib: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use with cilostazol is contraindicated during the first 3 months of abrocitinib therapy due to an increased risk of bleeding with thrombocytopenia.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Use caution with the coadministration of aspirin and cilostazol. Although the short-term (<= 4 days) coadministration of aspirin and cilostazol increased the inhibition of ADP-induced platelet aggregation by 22% to 37% compared to aspirin or cilostazol use alone, no clinically significant effect on PT, aPTT, or bleeding time was observed compared to aspirin alone. In clinical trials, there was no apparent increase in hemorrhagic adverse effects in patients taking cilostazol and aspirin compared to aspirin alone. The effects of long-term coadministration are unknown. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Use caution with the coadministration of aspirin and cilostazol. Although the short-term (<= 4 days) coadministration of aspirin and cilostazol increased the inhibition of ADP-induced platelet aggregation by 22% to 37% compared to aspirin or cilostazol use alone, no clinically significant effect on PT, aPTT, or bleeding time was observed compared to aspirin alone. In clinical trials, there was no apparent increase in hemorrhagic adverse effects in patients taking cilostazol and aspirin compared to aspirin alone. The effects of long-term coadministration are unknown. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin: (Moderate) Use caution with the coadministration of aspirin and cilostazol. Although the short-term (<= 4 days) coadministration of aspirin and cilostazol increased the inhibition of ADP-induced platelet aggregation by 22% to 37% compared to aspirin or cilostazol use alone, no clinically significant effect on PT, aPTT, or bleeding time was observed compared to aspirin alone. In clinical trials, there was no apparent increase in hemorrhagic adverse effects in patients taking cilostazol and aspirin compared to aspirin alone. The effects of long-term coadministration are unknown. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Use caution with the coadministration of aspirin and cilostazol. Although the short-term (<= 4 days) coadministration of aspirin and cilostazol increased the inhibition of ADP-induced platelet aggregation by 22% to 37% compared to aspirin or cilostazol use alone, no clinically significant effect on PT, aPTT, or bleeding time was observed compared to aspirin alone. In clinical trials, there was no apparent increase in hemorrhagic adverse effects in patients taking cilostazol and aspirin compared to aspirin alone. The effects of long-term coadministration are unknown. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Acetaminophen; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Adagrasib: (Major) Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily when coadministered with adagrasib and monitor for an increase in cilostazol-related adverse reactions. Concurrent use may increase cilostazol exposure. Cilostazol is a CYP3A substrate; adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the cilostazol AUC by 117%.
Ado-Trastuzumab emtansine: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of platelet inhibitors with ado-trastuzumab emtansine is necessary due to reports of severe and sometimes fatal hemorrhage, including intracranial bleeding, with ado-trastuzumab emtansine therapy. Consider additional monitoring when concomitant use is medically necessary. While some patients who experienced bleeding during ado-trastuzumab therapy were also receiving anticoagulation therapy, others had no known additional risk factors.
Alteplase: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and antiplatelet agents is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, consider delaying the initiation of antiplatelet therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily when coadministered with clarithromycin. Monitor for an increase in cilostazol-related adverse reactions. Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and cilostazol is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the cilostazol AUC by 117%. (Major) When significant CYP2C19 inhibitors, such as omeprazole, are administered concomitantly with cilostazol, the cilostazol dosage should be reduced by 50%. Cilostazol is metabolized by the CYP2C19 hepatic isoenzyme and appears to have pharmacokinetic interactions with many medications that are potent inhibitors of CYP2C19. When given concurrently with omeprazole, cilostazol AUC is increased by 26% and the Cmax is increased by 18%; the AUC of the active metabolite 3,4-dehydro-cilostazol is increased by 69% and the Cmax is increased by 29%.
Anagrelide: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of anagrelide and cilostazol. Both medications inhibit platelet aggregation and a potential additive risk for bleeding exists if they are coadministered.
Antithrombin III: (Moderate) The safety of cilostazol has not been established with concomitant administration of anticoagulants. Because cilostazol is a platelet aggregation inhibitor, concomitant administration with similar acting drugs could theoretically result in an increased risk of bleeding due to additive pharmacodynamic effects, and combinations of these agents should be approached with caution. Patients on anticoagulants should be monitored for changes in response to anticoagulation therapy if cilostazol is administered concurrently.
Antithymocyte Globulin: (Moderate) An increased risk of bleeding may occur when platelet inhibitors are used with agents that cause clinically significant thrombocytopenia, such as antithymocyte globulin. Platelet inhibitors should be used cautiously in patients with thrombocytopenia following the administration of antithymocyte globulin or other drugs that cause significant thrombocytopenia due to the increased risk of bleeding.
Apixaban: (Major) The concomitant use of apixaban and platelet inhibitors (e.g, aspirin) may increase the risk of bleeding. In the ARISTOTLE trial (comparative trial of apixaban and warfarin in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation), concomitant use of aspirin increased the bleeding risk of apixaban from 1.8%/year to 3.4%/year. If given concomitantly, patients should be educated about the signs and symptoms of bleeding and be instructed to report them immediately or go to an emergency room.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Major) Use caution if cilostazol and aprepitant, fosaprepitant are used concurrently and monitor for an increase in cilostazol-related adverse effects for several days after administration of a multi-day aprepitant regimen; a dose adjustment of cilostazol may be necessary. Cilostazol is a CYP3A4 substrate. Aprepitant, when administered as a 3-day oral regimen (125 mg/80 mg/80 mg), is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and inducer and may increase plasma concentrations of cilostazol. For example, a 5-day oral aprepitant regimen increased the AUC of another CYP3A4 substrate, midazolam (single dose), by 2.3-fold on day 1 and by 3.3-fold on day 5. After a 3-day oral aprepitant regimen, the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1, 4, 8, and 15) increased by 25% on day 4, and then decreased by 19% and 4% on days 8 and 15, respectively. As a single 125 mg or 40 mg oral dose, the inhibitory effect of aprepitant on CYP3A4 is weak, with the AUC of midazolam increased by 1.5-fold and 1.2-fold, respectively. After administration, fosaprepitant is rapidly converted to aprepitant and shares many of the same drug interactions. However, as a single 150 mg intravenous dose, fosaprepitant only weakly inhibits CYP3A4 for a duration of 2 days; there is no evidence of CYP3A4 induction. Fosaprepitant 150 mg IV as a single dose increased the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1 and 4) by approximately 1.8-fold on day 1; there was no effect on day 4. Less than a 2-fold increase in the midazolam AUC is not considered clinically important.
Argatroban: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., clopidogrel, platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors, ticlopidine, etc.) in combination with argatroban.
Aspirin, ASA: (Moderate) Use caution with the coadministration of aspirin and cilostazol. Although the short-term (<= 4 days) coadministration of aspirin and cilostazol increased the inhibition of ADP-induced platelet aggregation by 22% to 37% compared to aspirin or cilostazol use alone, no clinically significant effect on PT, aPTT, or bleeding time was observed compared to aspirin alone. In clinical trials, there was no apparent increase in hemorrhagic adverse effects in patients taking cilostazol and aspirin compared to aspirin alone. The effects of long-term coadministration are unknown. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Use caution with the coadministration of aspirin and cilostazol. Although the short-term (<= 4 days) coadministration of aspirin and cilostazol increased the inhibition of ADP-induced platelet aggregation by 22% to 37% compared to aspirin or cilostazol use alone, no clinically significant effect on PT, aPTT, or bleeding time was observed compared to aspirin alone. In clinical trials, there was no apparent increase in hemorrhagic adverse effects in patients taking cilostazol and aspirin compared to aspirin alone. The effects of long-term coadministration are unknown. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Use caution with the coadministration of aspirin and cilostazol. Although the short-term (<= 4 days) coadministration of aspirin and cilostazol increased the inhibition of ADP-induced platelet aggregation by 22% to 37% compared to aspirin or cilostazol use alone, no clinically significant effect on PT, aPTT, or bleeding time was observed compared to aspirin alone. In clinical trials, there was no apparent increase in hemorrhagic adverse effects in patients taking cilostazol and aspirin compared to aspirin alone. The effects of long-term coadministration are unknown. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Use caution with the coadministration of aspirin and cilostazol. Although the short-term (<= 4 days) coadministration of aspirin and cilostazol increased the inhibition of ADP-induced platelet aggregation by 22% to 37% compared to aspirin or cilostazol use alone, no clinically significant effect on PT, aPTT, or bleeding time was observed compared to aspirin alone. In clinical trials, there was no apparent increase in hemorrhagic adverse effects in patients taking cilostazol and aspirin compared to aspirin alone. The effects of long-term coadministration are unknown. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Use caution with the coadministration of aspirin and cilostazol. Although the short-term (<= 4 days) coadministration of aspirin and cilostazol increased the inhibition of ADP-induced platelet aggregation by 22% to 37% compared to aspirin or cilostazol use alone, no clinically significant effect on PT, aPTT, or bleeding time was observed compared to aspirin alone. In clinical trials, there was no apparent increase in hemorrhagic adverse effects in patients taking cilostazol and aspirin compared to aspirin alone. The effects of long-term coadministration are unknown. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Use caution with the coadministration of aspirin and cilostazol. Although the short-term (<= 4 days) coadministration of aspirin and cilostazol increased the inhibition of ADP-induced platelet aggregation by 22% to 37% compared to aspirin or cilostazol use alone, no clinically significant effect on PT, aPTT, or bleeding time was observed compared to aspirin alone. In clinical trials, there was no apparent increase in hemorrhagic adverse effects in patients taking cilostazol and aspirin compared to aspirin alone. The effects of long-term coadministration are unknown. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Aspirin, ASA; Dipyridamole: (Moderate) Because cilostazol and dipyridamole inhibit platelet aggregation, a potential additive risk for bleeding exists if they are coadministered. (Moderate) Use caution with the coadministration of aspirin and cilostazol. Although the short-term (<= 4 days) coadministration of aspirin and cilostazol increased the inhibition of ADP-induced platelet aggregation by 22% to 37% compared to aspirin or cilostazol use alone, no clinically significant effect on PT, aPTT, or bleeding time was observed compared to aspirin alone. In clinical trials, there was no apparent increase in hemorrhagic adverse effects in patients taking cilostazol and aspirin compared to aspirin alone. The effects of long-term coadministration are unknown. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Major) When significant CYP2C19 inhibitors, such as omeprazole, are administered concomitantly with cilostazol, the cilostazol dosage should be reduced by 50%. Cilostazol is metabolized by the CYP2C19 hepatic isoenzyme and appears to have pharmacokinetic interactions with many medications that are potent inhibitors of CYP2C19. When given concurrently with omeprazole, cilostazol AUC is increased by 26% and the Cmax is increased by 18%; the AUC of the active metabolite 3,4-dehydro-cilostazol is increased by 69% and the Cmax is increased by 29%. (Moderate) Use caution with the coadministration of aspirin and cilostazol. Although the short-term (<= 4 days) coadministration of aspirin and cilostazol increased the inhibition of ADP-induced platelet aggregation by 22% to 37% compared to aspirin or cilostazol use alone, no clinically significant effect on PT, aPTT, or bleeding time was observed compared to aspirin alone. In clinical trials, there was no apparent increase in hemorrhagic adverse effects in patients taking cilostazol and aspirin compared to aspirin alone. The effects of long-term coadministration are unknown. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Use caution with the coadministration of aspirin and cilostazol. Although the short-term (<= 4 days) coadministration of aspirin and cilostazol increased the inhibition of ADP-induced platelet aggregation by 22% to 37% compared to aspirin or cilostazol use alone, no clinically significant effect on PT, aPTT, or bleeding time was observed compared to aspirin alone. In clinical trials, there was no apparent increase in hemorrhagic adverse effects in patients taking cilostazol and aspirin compared to aspirin alone. The effects of long-term coadministration are unknown. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Atazanavir: (Major) Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily when coadministered with protease inhibitors and monitor for an increase in cilostazol-related adverse reactions. Concurrent use may increase cilostazol exposure. Cilostazol is a CYP3A substrate; protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the cilostazol AUC by 117%. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the AUC of cilostazol (single dose) by 73%; the AUC of 4-trans-hydroxycilostazol increased by 141%.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily when coadministered with cobicistat. Monitor for an increase in cilostazol-related adverse reactions. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and cilostazol is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the cilostazol AUC by 117%. (Major) Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily when coadministered with protease inhibitors and monitor for an increase in cilostazol-related adverse reactions. Concurrent use may increase cilostazol exposure. Cilostazol is a CYP3A substrate; protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the cilostazol AUC by 117%. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the AUC of cilostazol (single dose) by 73%; the AUC of 4-trans-hydroxycilostazol increased by 141%.
Avacopan: (Major) Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily when coadministered with avacopan and monitor for an increase in cilostazol-related adverse reactions. Concurrent use may increase cilostazol exposure. Cilostazol is a CYP3A substrate; avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the AUC of cilostazol (single dose) by 73%; the AUC of 4-trans-hydroxycilostazol increased by 141%.
Berotralstat: (Major) Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily when coadministered with berotralstat and monitor for an increase in cilostazol-related adverse reactions. Concurrent use may increase cilostazol exposure. Cilostazol is a CYP3A4 substrate; berotralstat is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the AUC of cilostazol (single dose) by 73%; the AUC of 4-trans-hydroxycilostazol increased by 141%.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Major) Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily when coadministered with lenacapavir and monitor for an increase in cilostazol-related adverse reactions. Concurrent use may increase cilostazol exposure. Cilostazol is a CYP3A substrate; lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the AUC of cilostazol (single dose) by 73%; the AUC of 4-trans-hydroxycilostazol increased by 141%.
Bivalirudin: (Moderate) When used as an anticoagulant in patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI), bivalirudin is intended for use with aspirin (300 to 325 mg/day PO) and has been studied only in patients receiving concomitant aspirin. Generally, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving other platelet inhibitors (other than aspirin). In clinical trials in patients undergoing PTCA, patients receiving bivalirudin with heparin, warfarin, or thrombolytics had increased risks of major bleeding events compared to those receiving bivalirudin alone. According to the manufacturer, the safety and effectiveness of bivalirudin have not been established when used in conjunction with platelet inhibitors other than aspirin. However, bivalirudin has been safely used as an alternative to heparin in combination with provisional use of platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors during angioplasty (REPLACE-2). In addition, two major clinical trials have evaluated the use of bivalirudin in patients receiving streptokinase following acute myocardial infarction (HERO-1, HERO-2). Based on the these trials, bivalirudin may be considered an alternative to heparin therapy for use in combination with streptokinase for ST-elevation MI. Bivalirudin has not been sufficiently studied in combination with other more specific thrombolytics.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Use caution with the coadministration of aspirin and cilostazol. Although the short-term (<= 4 days) coadministration of aspirin and cilostazol increased the inhibition of ADP-induced platelet aggregation by 22% to 37% compared to aspirin or cilostazol use alone, no clinically significant effect on PT, aPTT, or bleeding time was observed compared to aspirin alone. In clinical trials, there was no apparent increase in hemorrhagic adverse effects in patients taking cilostazol and aspirin compared to aspirin alone. The effects of long-term coadministration are unknown. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Cannabidiol: (Major) Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily when coadministered with cannabidiol and monitor for an increase in cilostazol-related adverse reactions. Concurrent use may increase cilostazol exposure. Cilostazol is a CYP2C19 substrate; cannabidiol is a moderate CYP2C19 inhibitor. Coadministration with another CYP2C19 inhibitor did not significantly affect the metabolism of cilostazol, but the systemic exposure to 3,4-dehydro-cilostazol was increased by 69%.
Caplacizumab: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of caplacizumab and platelet inhibitors when possible. Assess and monitor closely for bleeding if use together is necessary. Interrupt use of caplacizumab if clinically significant bleeding occurs.
Celecoxib: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Cenobamate: (Major) Reduce cilostazol dose to 50 mg twice daily when coadministered with cenobamate. Coadministration increases systemic exposure of cilostazol active metabolites. Cilostazol is a CYP2C19 substrate; cenobamate is a moderate CYP2C19 inhibitor. Coadministration of another CYP2C19 inhibitor did not significantly affect the metabolism of cilostazol, but the systemic exposure to 3,4-dehydro-cilostazol was increased by 69%.
Ceritinib: (Major) Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily when coadministered with ceritinib. Monitor for an increase in cilostazol-related adverse reactions. Ceritinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and cilostazol is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the cilostazol AUC by 117%.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Cimetidine: (Minor) Cilostazol is extensively metabolized by the CYP3A4 hepatic isoenzyme and appears to interact with medications that are potent inhibitors of this enzyme, including cimetidine. When significant CYP3A4 inhibitors are administered concomitantly, the cilostazol adult dosage should be reduced by 50%.
Ciprofloxacin: (Major) Reduce cilostazol dose to 50 mg PO twice daily when administered with ciprofloxacin. Coadministration of moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as ciprofloxacin, can increase exposure to cilostazol, a CYP3A4 substrate.
Citalopram: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication in patients receiving platelet inhibitors. Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding.
Cladribine: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of purine analogs, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant platelet inhibitors.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily when coadministered with clarithromycin. Monitor for an increase in cilostazol-related adverse reactions. Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and cilostazol is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the cilostazol AUC by 117%.
Clopidogrel: (Moderate) Carefully monitor patients for signs and symptoms of bleeding during coadministration of cilostazol and clopidogrel. Both agents are platelet inhibitors; therefore, concomitant use may increase the risk of bleeding. Platelet aggregation returns to normal within 96 hours of discontinuing cilostazol.
Cobicistat: (Major) Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily when coadministered with cobicistat. Monitor for an increase in cilostazol-related adverse reactions. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and cilostazol is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the cilostazol AUC by 117%.
Collagenase: (Moderate) Cautious use of injectable collagenase by patients taking platelet inhibitors is advised. The efficacy and safety of administering injectable collagenase to a patient taking a platelet inhibitor within 7 days before the injection are unknown. Receipt of injectable collagenase may cause an ecchymosis or bleeding at the injection site.
Conivaptan: (Major) Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily when coadministered with conivaptan and monitor for an increase in cilostazol-related adverse reactions. Concurrent use may increase cilostazol exposure. Cilostazol is a CYP3A substrate; conivaptan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the AUC of cilostazol (single dose) by 73%; the AUC of 4-trans-hydroxycilostazol increased by 141%.
Crizotinib: (Major) Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily when coadministered with crizotinib and monitor for an increase in cilostazol-related adverse reactions. Cilostazol is a CYP3A4 substrate and crizotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of cilostazol (single dose) by 47% and 73%, respectively; the AUC of 4-trans-hydroxycilostazol increased by 141%.
Dabigatran: (Moderate) The safety of cilostazol has not been established with concomitant administration of anticoagulants. Because cilostazol is a platelet aggregation inhibitor, concomitant administration with similar acting drugs could theoretically result in an increased risk of bleeding due to additive pharmacodynamic effects, and combinations of these agents should be approached with caution. Patients on anticoagulants should be monitored for changes in response to anticoagulation therapy if cilostazol is administered concurrently.
Dalteparin: (Moderate) The safety of cilostazol has not been established with concomitant administration of anticoagulants. Because cilostazol is a platelet aggregation inhibitor, concomitant administration with similar acting drugs could theoretically result in an increased risk of bleeding due to additive pharmacodynamic effects, and combinations of these agents should be approached with caution. Patients on anticoagulants should be monitored for changes in response to anticoagulation therapy if cilostazol is administered concurrently.
Darunavir: (Major) Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily when coadministered with protease inhibitors and monitor for an increase in cilostazol-related adverse reactions. Concurrent use may increase cilostazol exposure. Cilostazol is a CYP3A substrate; protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the cilostazol AUC by 117%. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the AUC of cilostazol (single dose) by 73%; the AUC of 4-trans-hydroxycilostazol increased by 141%.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily when coadministered with cobicistat. Monitor for an increase in cilostazol-related adverse reactions. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and cilostazol is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the cilostazol AUC by 117%. (Major) Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily when coadministered with protease inhibitors and monitor for an increase in cilostazol-related adverse reactions. Concurrent use may increase cilostazol exposure. Cilostazol is a CYP3A substrate; protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the cilostazol AUC by 117%. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the AUC of cilostazol (single dose) by 73%; the AUC of 4-trans-hydroxycilostazol increased by 141%.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily when coadministered with cobicistat. Monitor for an increase in cilostazol-related adverse reactions. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and cilostazol is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the cilostazol AUC by 117%. (Major) Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily when coadministered with protease inhibitors and monitor for an increase in cilostazol-related adverse reactions. Concurrent use may increase cilostazol exposure. Cilostazol is a CYP3A substrate; protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the cilostazol AUC by 117%. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the AUC of cilostazol (single dose) by 73%; the AUC of 4-trans-hydroxycilostazol increased by 141%.
Dasatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for evidence of bleeding if coadministration of dasatinib and cilostazol is necessary. Dasatinib can cause serious and fatal bleeding. Concomitant platelet inhibitors may increase the risk of hemorrhage.
Defibrotide: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of defibrotide with antithrombotic agents like platelet inhibitors is contraindicated. The pharmacodynamic activity and risk of hemorrhage with antithrombotic agents are increased if coadministered with defibrotide. If therapy with defibrotide is necessary, discontinue antithrombotic agents prior to initiation of defibrotide therapy. Consider delaying the onset of defibrotide treatment until the effects of the antithrombotic agent have abated.
Deoxycholic Acid: (Moderate) Use deoxycholic acid with caution in patients receiving platelet inhibitors. Excessive bruising or bleeding may occur in and around the treatment area.
Desvenlafaxine: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), such as desvenlafaxine, and medications that interfere with hemostasis, such as cilostazol. SNRIs affect platelet activation and may interfere with clot formation increasing the risk for bleeding.
Diclofenac: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Diflunisal: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
dilTIAZem: (Major) Diltiazem can potentially inhibit the CYP3A4 metabolism of cilostazol. The coadministration of diltiazem and cilostazol increases the AUC of cilostazol by approximately 40%, presumably by inhibition of CYP3A4 metabolism. When diltiazem or other significant CYP3A4 inhibitors are coadministered with cilostazol, the manufacturer recommends that the cilostazol dosage be reduced by 50%.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Dipyridamole: (Moderate) Because cilostazol and dipyridamole inhibit platelet aggregation, a potential additive risk for bleeding exists if they are coadministered.
Dronedarone: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A. Cilostazol is a substrate for CYP3A4. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP3A substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), such as duloxetine, and medications that interfere with hemostasis, such as cilostazol. SNRIs affect platelet activation and may interfere with clot formation increasing the risk for bleeding.
Duvelisib: (Major) Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily when coadministered with duvelisib, and monitor for an increase in cilostazol-related adverse reactions. Cilostazol is a CYP3A4 substrate; duvelisib is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of cilostazol (single dose) by 47% and 73%, respectively; the AUC of 4-trans-hydroxycilostazol increased by 141%.
Edoxaban: (Major) Coadministration of edoxaban and platelet inhibitors should be avoided due to an increased risk of bleeding during concurrent use. Occasionally, short-term coadministration may be necessary in patients transitioning to and from edoxaban. Long-term coadminstration is not recommended. Promptly evaluate any signs or symptoms of blood loss in patients on concomitant therapy.
Efavirenz: (Major) Efavirenz induces CYP3A4 and may decrease serum concentrations of drugs metabolized by this enzyme, such as cilostazol.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Efavirenz induces CYP3A4 and may decrease serum concentrations of drugs metabolized by this enzyme, such as cilostazol.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Efavirenz induces CYP3A4 and may decrease serum concentrations of drugs metabolized by this enzyme, such as cilostazol.
Elbasvir; Grazoprevir: (Major) Administering cilostazol with grazoprevir may result in elevated cilostazol plasma concentrations. Cilostazol is a substrate of CYP3A; grazoprevir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. If these drugs are used together, closely monitor for signs of adverse events.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily when coadministered with cobicistat. Monitor for an increase in cilostazol-related adverse reactions. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and cilostazol is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the cilostazol AUC by 117%.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily when coadministered with cobicistat. Monitor for an increase in cilostazol-related adverse reactions. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and cilostazol is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the cilostazol AUC by 117%.
Enoxaparin: (Moderate) The safety of cilostazol has not been established with concomitant administration of anticoagulants. Because cilostazol is a platelet aggregation inhibitor, concomitant administration with similar acting drugs could theoretically result in an increased risk of bleeding due to additive pharmacodynamic effects, and combinations of these agents should be approached with caution. Patients on anticoagulants should be monitored for changes in response to anticoagulation therapy if cilostazol is administered concurrently.
Ensitrelvir: (Major) Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily when coadministered with ensitrelvir and monitor for an increase in cilostazol-related adverse reactions. Concurrent use may increase cilostazol exposure. Cilostazol is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the cilostazol AUC by 117%.
Eptifibatide: (Moderate) Because cilostazol is a platelet aggregation inhibitor, a potential additive risk for bleeding exists if cilostazol is given with other agent that affect hemostasis such as platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors including abciximab, eptifibatide, and tirofiban.
Erythromycin: (Major) Erythromycin can inhibit the hepatic metabolism of cilostazol, increasing it's serum concentrations and potentially causing toxicity. When erythromycin or other significant CYP3A4 inhibitors are coadministered with cilostazol, the manufacturer recommends that the cilostazol dosage be reduced by 50%.
Escitalopram: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), including escitalopram, due to platelet serotonin depletion. There may be an increased risk of a bleeding complication in patients receiving platelet inhibitors, such as cilostazol. Patients receiving this combination should be monitored for signs and symptoms of bleeding.
Esomeprazole: (Major) Cilostazol is metabolized by the CYP2C19 hepatic isoenzyme and appears to have pharmacokinetic interactions with many medications that are potent inhibitors of CYP2C19, such as esomeprazole. When given concurrently with omeprazole, another CYP2C19 inhibitor, cilostazol AUC is increased by 26% and the Cmax is increased by 18%; the AUC of the active metabolite 3,4-dehydro-cilostazol is increased by 69% and the Cmax is increased by 29%. When administered concomitantly with esomeprazole, the cilostazol dosage should be reduced by 50%.
Etodolac: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Fedratinib: (Major) Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily when coadministered with fedratinib and monitor for an increase in cilostazol-related adverse reactions. Concurrent use may increase cilostazol exposure. Cilostazol is a CYP3A substrate; fedratinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the AUC of cilostazol (single dose) by 73%; the AUC of 4-trans-hydroxycilostazol increased by 141%.
Fenoprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily when coadministered with fexinidazole and monitor for an increase in cilostazol-related adverse reactions. Concurrent use may increase cilostazol exposure. Cilostazol is a CYP2C19 substrate; fexinidazole is a moderate CYP2C19 inhibitor. Coadministration with another CYP2C19 inhibitor did not significantly affect the metabolism of cilostazol, but the systemic exposure to 3,4-dehydro-cilostazol was increased by 69%.
Fish Oil, Omega-3 Fatty Acids (Dietary Supplements): (Moderate) Because fish oil, omega-3 fatty acids inhibit platelet aggregation, caution is advised when fish oils are used concurrently with other platelet inhibitors. Theoretically, the risk of bleeding may be increased.
Fluconazole: (Major) Decrease cilostazol dose to one half of the recommended dosage when coadministered with fluconazole. Coadministration may increase cilostazol serum concentrations and increase the risk for adverse reactions. Cilostazol is extensively metabolized by hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; fluconazole is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A4.
Fludarabine: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of purine analogs, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant platelet inhibitors.
FLUoxetine: (Major) Cilostazol is extensively metabolized by the CYP3A4 hepatic isoenzyme and appears to have pharmacokinetic interactions with many medications that are potent inhibitors of CYP3A4, including fluoxetine. These agents have been shown to increase both cilostazol AUC and Cmax when administered concurrently. When significant CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as fluoxetine, are administered concomitantly with cilostazol, the manufacturer recommends that the cilostazol dosage be reduced by 50%.
Flurbiprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
fluvoxaMINE: (Major) Decrease cilostazol dose to one half of the recommended dosage when coadministered with fluvoxamine. Coadministration may increase cilostazol serum concentrations and increase the risk for adverse reactions. Cilostazol is extensively metabolized by hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; fluvoxamine is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A4. In a drug interaction study, coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased cilostazol Cmax by 94% and AUC by 117%.
Fondaparinux: (Moderate) The safety of cilostazol has not been established with concomitant administration of anticoagulants. Because cilostazol is a platelet aggregation inhibitor, concomitant administration with similar acting drugs could theoretically result in an increased risk of bleeding due to additive pharmacodynamic effects, and combinations of these agents should be approached with caution. Patients on anticoagulants should be monitored for changes in response to anticoagulation therapy if cilostazol is administered concurrently.
Food: (Contraindicated) Coadministration with food increases both the AUC and the Cmax of cilostazol, particularly if the meal has a high fat content. Cilostazol is recommended to be administered on an empty stomach, at least one-half hour before or two hours after food.
Fosamprenavir: (Major) Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily when coadministered with protease inhibitors and monitor for an increase in cilostazol-related adverse reactions. Concurrent use may increase cilostazol exposure. Cilostazol is a CYP3A substrate; protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the cilostazol AUC by 117%. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the AUC of cilostazol (single dose) by 73%; the AUC of 4-trans-hydroxycilostazol increased by 141%.
Garlic, Allium sativum: (Moderate) Use together with caution. Garlic produces clinically significant antiplatelet effects, and a risk for bleeding may occur if platelet inhibitors are given in combination with garlic.
Ginger, Zingiber officinale: (Moderate) Ginger inhibits thromboxane synthetase, a platelet aggregation inducer, and is a prostacyclin agonist so additive bleeding may occur if platelet inhibitors are given in combination with ginger, zingiber officinale.
Ginkgo, Ginkgo biloba: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of bleeding with coadministration of ginkgo biloba and platelet inhibitors as an increased bleeding risk may occur. Although data are mixed, ginkgo biloba is reported to inhibit platelet aggregation and several case reports describe bleeding complications with ginkgo biloba, with or without concomitant drug therapy.
Grapefruit juice: (Major) While the effects have not been systematically evaluated, grapefruit juice may inhibit cilostazol metabolism by inhibiting cytochrome P450 3A4 in enterocytes. Grapefruit juice inhibits the cytochrome P-450 3A4 isozyme in the gut wall. Grapefruit juice contains furanocoumarins that are metabolized by CYP3A4 to reactive intermediates. These intermediates form a covalent bond to the active site of the CYP3A4 enzyme, causing irreversible inactivation (mechanism-based inhibition). Consequently, CYP3A4 activity in the gut wall is inhibited until de novo synthesis returns the enzyme to its previous level. Grapefruit juice increases the Cmax of cilostazol by about 50%, but has no effect on cilostazol AUC. The clinical significance of the interaction is unknown. It is possible that cilostazol induced side effects could be increased in some individuals.
Green Tea: (Moderate) Green tea has demonstrated antiplatelet and fibrinolytic actions in animals. It is possible that the use of green tea may increase the risk of bleeding if co administered with aspirin. Caution and careful monitoring of clinical and/or laboratory parameters are warranted with this combination.
Heparin: (Moderate) The safety of cilostazol has not been established with concomitant administration of anticoagulants. Because cilostazol is a platelet aggregation inhibitor, concomitant administration with similar acting drugs could theoretically result in an increased risk of bleeding due to additive pharmacodynamic effects, and combinations of these agents should be approached with caution. Patients on anticoagulants should be monitored for changes in response to anticoagulation therapy if cilostazol is administered concurrently.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Ibritumomab Tiuxetan: (Major) During and after therapy, avoid the concomitant use of Yttrium (Y)-90 ibrutumomab tiuxetan with drugs that interfere with platelet function such as platelet inhibitors; the risk of bleeding may be increased. If coadministration with platelet inhibitors is necessary, monitor platelet counts more frequently for evidence of thrombocytopenia.
Ibrutinib: (Moderate) The concomitant use of ibrutinib and antiplatelet agents such as cilostazol may increase the risk of bleeding; monitor patients for signs of bleeding. Severe bleeding events have occurred with ibrutinib therapy including intracranial hemorrhage, GI bleeding, hematuria, and post procedural hemorrhage; some events were fatal. The mechanism for bleeding with ibrutinib therapy is not well understood.
Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Icosapent ethyl: (Moderate) Icosapent ethyl is an ethyl ester of the omega-3 fatty acid eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA). Because omega-3 fatty acids inhibit platelet aggregation, caution is advised when icosapent ethyl is used concurrently with anticoagulants, platelet inhibitors, or thrombolytic agents. Theoretically, the risk of bleeding may be increased, but some studies that combined these agents did not produce clinically significant bleeding events. In one placebo-controlled, randomized, double-blinded, parallel study, patients receiving stable, chronic warfarin therapy were administered various doses of fish oil supplements to determine the effect on INR determinations. Patients were randomized to receive a 4-week treatment period of either placebo or 3 or 6 grams of fish oil daily. Patients were followed on a twice-weekly basis for INR determinations and adverse reactions. There was no statistically significant difference in INRs between the placebo or treatment period within each group. There was also no difference in INRs found between groups. One episode of ecchymosis was reported, but no major bleeding episodes occurred. The authors concluded that fish oil supplementation in doses of 36 grams per day does not have a statistically significant effect on the INR of patients receiving chronic warfarin therapy. However, an increase in INR from 2.8 to 4.3 in a patient stable on warfarin therapy has been reported when increasing the dose of fish oil, omega-3 fatty acids from 1 gram/day to 2 grams/day. The INR decreased once the patient decreased her dose of fish oil to 1 gram/day. This implies that a dose-related effect of fish oil on warfarin may be possible. Patients receiving warfarin that initiate concomitant icosapent ethyl therapy should have their INR monitored more closely and the dose of warfarin adjusted accordingly.
Idelalisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of idelalisib, a strong CYP3A inhibitor, with cilostazol, a CYP3A substrate, as cilostazol toxicities may be significantly increased. The AUC of a sensitive CYP3A substrate was increased 5.4-fold when coadministered with idelalisib.
Iloprost: (Moderate) When used concurrently with platelet inhibitors, inhaled iloprost may increase the risk of bleeding.
Imatinib: (Major) Imatinib is a potent inhibitor of cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4 and may increase concentrations of other drugs metabolized by this enzyme, inlcuding cilostazol. Consider up to a 50% reduction in cilostazol dosage when coadministered with imatinib. The combination may also cause an additive risk of bleeding.
Indomethacin: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Inotersen: (Moderate) Use caution with concomitant use of inotersen and cilostazol due to the potential risk of bleeding from thrombocytopenia. Consider discontinuation of cilostazol in a patient taking inotersen with a platelet count of less than 50,000 per microliter.
Intravenous Lipid Emulsions: (Moderate) Because fish oil, omega-3 fatty acids inhibit platelet aggregation, caution is advised when fish oils are used concurrently with other platelet inhibitors. Theoretically, the risk of bleeding may be increased.
Isavuconazonium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of isavuconazonium with cilostazol may result in increased serum concentrations of cilostazol. Cilostazol is a substrate of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; isavuconazole, the active moiety of isavuconazonium, is a moderate inhibitor of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together.
Isoniazid, INH: (Major) Decrease cilostazol dose to one-half of the recommended dosage when coadministered with isoniazid. Coadministration may increase cilostazol serum concentrations and increase the risk for adverse reactions. Cilostazol is a CYP2C19 substrate; isoniazid is a moderate CYP2C19 inhibitor. Coadministration of another CYP2C19 inhibitor did not significantly affect the metabolism of cilostazol, but the systemic exposure to 3,4-dehydro-cilostazol was increased by 69%.
Itraconazole: (Major) Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily when coadministered with itraconazole and monitor for an increase in cilostazol-related adverse reactions. Concurrent use may increase cilostazol exposure. Cilostazol is a CYP3A substrate; itraconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the cilostazol AUC by 117%.
Ketoconazole: (Major) Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily when coadministered with ketoconazole and monitor for an increase in cilostazol-related adverse reactions. Concurrent use may increase cilostazol exposure. Cilostazol is a CYP3A4 substrate; ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased the cilostazol AUC by 117%.
Ketoprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Ketorolac: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily when coadministered with clarithromycin. Monitor for an increase in cilostazol-related adverse reactions. Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and cilostazol is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the cilostazol AUC by 117%.
Lefamulin: (Major) Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily when coadministered with oral lefamulin, and monitor for an increase in cilostazol-related adverse reactions. Cilostazol is a CYP3A4 substrate. Oral lefamulin is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; an interaction is not expected with intravenous lefamulin. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of cilostazol (single dose) by 47% and 73%, respectively; the AUC of 4-trans-hydroxycilostazol increased by 141%.
Lenacapavir: (Major) Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily when coadministered with lenacapavir and monitor for an increase in cilostazol-related adverse reactions. Concurrent use may increase cilostazol exposure. Cilostazol is a CYP3A substrate; lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the AUC of cilostazol (single dose) by 73%; the AUC of 4-trans-hydroxycilostazol increased by 141%.
Letermovir: (Major) Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg PO twice daily if coadministered with letermovir due to increased cilostazol exposure and risk for adverse events. The magnitude of this interaction may be increased in patients who are also receiving cyclosporine. Cilostazol is a substrate of CYP3A4. Letermovir is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. The combined effect of letermovir and cyclosporine on CYP3A4 substrates may be similar to a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. The AUC of cilostazol and its metabolite 4-trans-hydroxycilostazol have been increased by up to 73% and 141%, respectively in the presence of moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors; a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the cilostazol AUC by 117%.
Levoketoconazole: (Major) Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily when coadministered with ketoconazole and monitor for an increase in cilostazol-related adverse reactions. Concurrent use may increase cilostazol exposure. Cilostazol is a CYP3A4 substrate; ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased the cilostazol AUC by 117%.
Levomilnacipran: (Moderate) Carefully monitor patients for signs and symptoms of bleeding during coadministration of levomilnacipran and platelet inhibitors. Serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) affect platelet activation; therefore, concomitant use may increase the risk of bleeding.
Lomitapide: (Major) Concomitant use of lomitapide and cilostazol may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Therefore, the lomitapide dose should not exceed 30 mg/day PO during concurrent use. Cilostazol is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily when coadministered with lonafarnib and monitor for an increase in cilostazol-related adverse reactions. Concurrent use may increase cilostazol exposure. Cilostazol is a CYP3A4 and CYP2C19 substrate; lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and moderate CYP2C19 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the cilostazol AUC by 117%. Coadministration with another CYP2C19 inhibitor increased the exposure of 3,4-dehydro-cilostazol by 69%.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily when coadministered with protease inhibitors and monitor for an increase in cilostazol-related adverse reactions. Concurrent use may increase cilostazol exposure. Cilostazol is a CYP3A substrate; protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the cilostazol AUC by 117%. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the AUC of cilostazol (single dose) by 73%; the AUC of 4-trans-hydroxycilostazol increased by 141%.
Lovastatin: (Moderate) Cilostazol may interact with lovastatin, but it is not clear if the interaction could be clinically significant. In healthy volunteers, peak plasma concentrations of lovastatin did not change with co-administration of cilostazol. However, peak plasma concentrations and the AUC of lovastatin's active metabolite did increase. Also, the peak plasma concentrations and AUC of cilostazol were decreased by roughly 15% when lovastatin was co-administered.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Lumacaftor; ivacaftor may reduce the efficacy of cilostazol by decreasing its systemic exposure; caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together. Cilostazol is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 and, to a lesser extent, CYP2C19. Lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer; in vitro data also suggest lumacaftor; ivacaftor may induce CYP2C19.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Lumacaftor; ivacaftor may reduce the efficacy of cilostazol by decreasing its systemic exposure; caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together. Cilostazol is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 and, to a lesser extent, CYP2C19. Lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer; in vitro data also suggest lumacaftor; ivacaftor may induce CYP2C19.
Meclofenamate Sodium: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Mefenamic Acid: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Meloxicam: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Mercaptopurine, 6-MP: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of purine analogs, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant platelet inhibitors.
Methoxsalen: (Minor) Agents that affect platelet function, such as platelet inhibitors, could decrease the efficacy of methoxsalen when used during photodynamic therapy.
miFEPRIStone: (Moderate) Mifepristone is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. Use of mifepristone may lead to an increase in serum levels of drugs that are CYP3A4 substrates, such as cilostazol. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors have significantly increased the systemic exposure of cilostazol and/or its major metabolites. Due to the slow elimination of mifepristone from the body, such interactions may be observed for a prolonged period after mifepristone administration. If use together is medically necessary, use the lowest dose of cilostazol necessary (e.g., 50 mg PO twice daily), with appropriate monitoring and follow-up. Side effects of cilostazol may include unusual bleeding or bruising, diarrhea, dizziness, edema (such as swelling of the ankles or legs), headache, or upset stomach.
Milnacipran: (Moderate) Carefully monitor patients for signs and symptoms of bleeding during coadministration of milnacipran and platelet inhibitors. Serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) affect platelet activation; therefore, concomitant use may increase the risk of bleeding.
Mitotane: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and cilostazol are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of cilostazol and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and cilostazol is a CYP3A4 substrate in vitro; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of cilostazol.
Mycophenolate: (Moderate) Platelet Inhibitors inhibit platelet aggregation and should be used cautiously in patients with thrombocytopenia, as mycophenolate can also cause thrombocytopenia.
Nabumetone: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Naproxen: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Major) Cilostazol is metabolized by the CYP2C19 hepatic isoenzyme and appears to have pharmacokinetic interactions with many medications that are potent inhibitors of CYP2C19, such as esomeprazole. When given concurrently with omeprazole, another CYP2C19 inhibitor, cilostazol AUC is increased by 26% and the Cmax is increased by 18%; the AUC of the active metabolite 3,4-dehydro-cilostazol is increased by 69% and the Cmax is increased by 29%. When administered concomitantly with esomeprazole, the cilostazol dosage should be reduced by 50%. (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Nefazodone: (Major) Decrease cilostazol dose to one half of the recommended dosage when coadministered with nefazodone. Coadministration may increase cilostazol serum concentrations and increase the risk for adverse reactions. Cilostazol is extensively metabolized by hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; nefazodone is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. In a drug interaction study, coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and cilostazol increased cilostazol Cmax by 94% and AUC by 117%.
Nelarabine: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant platelet inhibitors.
Nelfinavir: (Major) Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily when coadministered with protease inhibitors and monitor for an increase in cilostazol-related adverse reactions. Concurrent use may increase cilostazol exposure. Cilostazol is a CYP3A substrate; protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the cilostazol AUC by 117%. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the AUC of cilostazol (single dose) by 73%; the AUC of 4-trans-hydroxycilostazol increased by 141%.
NiCARdipine: (Minor) Nicardipine is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 isoenzymes. Co-administration with nicardipine may lead to an increase in serum levels of drugs that are CYP3A4 substrates, such as cilostazol.
Nilotinib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nilotinib, an moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and cilostazol, a CYP3A substrate, may result in increased cilostazol concentrations. A cilostazol dose reduction may be necessary if these medications are used together.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily when coadministered with protease inhibitors and monitor for an increase in cilostazol-related adverse reactions. Concurrent use may increase cilostazol exposure. Cilostazol is a CYP3A substrate; protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the cilostazol AUC by 117%. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the AUC of cilostazol (single dose) by 73%; the AUC of 4-trans-hydroxycilostazol increased by 141%.
Nirogacestat: (Major) Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily when coadministered with nirogacestat and monitor for an increase in cilostazol-related adverse reactions. Concurrent use may increase cilostazol exposure. Cilostazol is a CYP3A substrate; nirogacestat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the AUC of cilostazol (single dose) by 73%; the AUC of 4-trans-hydroxycilostazol increased by 141%.
Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Obinutuzumab: (Moderate) Fatal hemorrhagic events have been reported in patients treated with obinutuzumab; all events occured during cycle 1. Monitor all patients for thrombocytopenia and bleeding, and consider withholding concomitant medications which may increase bleeding risk (i.e., anticoagulants, platelet inhibitors), especially during the first cycle.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Major) Cilostazol is extensively metabolized by the CYP3A4 hepatic isoenzyme and appears to have pharmacokinetic interactions with many medications that are potent inhibitors of CYP3A4, including fluoxetine. These agents have been shown to increase both cilostazol AUC and Cmax when administered concurrently. When significant CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as fluoxetine, are administered concomitantly with cilostazol, the manufacturer recommends that the cilostazol dosage be reduced by 50%.
Omeprazole: (Major) When significant CYP2C19 inhibitors, such as omeprazole, are administered concomitantly with cilostazol, the cilostazol dosage should be reduced by 50%. Cilostazol is metabolized by the CYP2C19 hepatic isoenzyme and appears to have pharmacokinetic interactions with many medications that are potent inhibitors of CYP2C19. When given concurrently with omeprazole, cilostazol AUC is increased by 26% and the Cmax is increased by 18%; the AUC of the active metabolite 3,4-dehydro-cilostazol is increased by 69% and the Cmax is increased by 29%.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Major) When significant CYP2C19 inhibitors, such as omeprazole, are administered concomitantly with cilostazol, the cilostazol dosage should be reduced by 50%. Cilostazol is metabolized by the CYP2C19 hepatic isoenzyme and appears to have pharmacokinetic interactions with many medications that are potent inhibitors of CYP2C19. When given concurrently with omeprazole, cilostazol AUC is increased by 26% and the Cmax is increased by 18%; the AUC of the active metabolite 3,4-dehydro-cilostazol is increased by 69% and the Cmax is increased by 29%.
Omeprazole; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Major) When significant CYP2C19 inhibitors, such as omeprazole, are administered concomitantly with cilostazol, the cilostazol dosage should be reduced by 50%. Cilostazol is metabolized by the CYP2C19 hepatic isoenzyme and appears to have pharmacokinetic interactions with many medications that are potent inhibitors of CYP2C19. When given concurrently with omeprazole, cilostazol AUC is increased by 26% and the Cmax is increased by 18%; the AUC of the active metabolite 3,4-dehydro-cilostazol is increased by 69% and the Cmax is increased by 29%.
Oritavancin: (Major) Cilostazol is metabolized by CYP3A4; oritavancin is a weak CYP3A4 inducer. Plasma concentrations and efficacy of cilostazol may be reduced if these drugs are administered concurrently.
Oxaprozin: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
PARoxetine: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication in patients receiving platelet inhibitors. Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding.
PAZOPanib: (Moderate) Pazopanib is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration of pazopanib and cilostazol, a CYP3A4 substrate, may cause an increase in systemic concentrations of cilostazol. Use caution when administering these drugs concomitantly.
Pentosan: (Moderate) The safety of cilostazol has not been established with concomitant administration of anticoagulants. Because cilostazol is a platelet aggregation inhibitor, concomitant administration with similar acting drugs could theoretically result in an increased risk of bleeding due to additive pharmacodynamic effects, and combinations of these agents should be approached with caution. Patients on anticoagulants should be monitored for changes in response to anticoagulation therapy if cilostazol is administered concurrently.
Pentostatin: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of purine analogs, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant platelet inhibitors.
Pentoxifylline: (Moderate) A potential additive risk for bleeding exists if platelet inhibitors are given in combination with other agents that affect hemostasis such as pentoxifylline.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Moderate) Concurrent use of topiramate and drugs that affect platelet function such as cilostazol may increase the risk of bleeding. In a pooled analysis of placebo-controlled trials, bleeding was more frequently reported in patients receiving topiramate (4.5%) compared to placebo (2-3%). In those with severe bleeding events, patients were often taking drugs that cause thrombocytopenia or affect platelet function or coagulation. In addition, cilostazol is metabolized by the cytochrome P450 CYP2C19 hepatic isoenzyme and may interact with medications that are inhibitors of CYP2C19, including topiramate.
Piroxicam: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Platelet Glycoprotein IIb/IIIa Inhibitors: (Moderate) Because cilostazol is a platelet aggregation inhibitor, a potential additive risk for bleeding exists if cilostazol is given with other agent that affect hemostasis such as platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors including abciximab, eptifibatide, and tirofiban.
Posaconazole: (Moderate) Posaconazole and cilostazol should be coadministered with caution due to an increased potential for cilostazol-related adverse events. Posaconazole is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4, an isoenzyme responsible for the metabolism of cilostazol. These drugs used in combination may result in elevated cilostazol plasma concentrations, causing an increased risk for cilostazol-related adverse events.
Prasterone, Dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA (Dietary Supplements): (Moderate) Prasterone is contraindicated for use in patients with active deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism or history of these conditions. Prasterone is also contraindicated in patients with active arterial thromboembolic disease (for example, stroke and myocardial infarction), or a history of these conditions. Thus, patients receiving anticoagulation due to a history of these conditions are not candidates for prasterone treatment. DHEA is converted to androgens and estrogens within the human body and thus may affect hemostasis via androgenic or estrogenic effects. Estrogens increase the production of clotting factors VII, VIII, IX, and X. Androgens, such as testosterone, increase the synthesis of several anticoagulant and fibrinolytic proteins. Because of the potential effects on coagulation, patients receiving prasterone or DHEA concurrently with preventative anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin or heparin) or other platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, ASA should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments.
Prasterone, Dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA (FDA-approved): (Moderate) Prasterone is contraindicated for use in patients with active deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism or history of these conditions. Prasterone is also contraindicated in patients with active arterial thromboembolic disease (for example, stroke and myocardial infarction), or a history of these conditions. Thus, patients receiving anticoagulation due to a history of these conditions are not candidates for prasterone treatment. DHEA is converted to androgens and estrogens within the human body and thus may affect hemostasis via androgenic or estrogenic effects. Estrogens increase the production of clotting factors VII, VIII, IX, and X. Androgens, such as testosterone, increase the synthesis of several anticoagulant and fibrinolytic proteins. Because of the potential effects on coagulation, patients receiving prasterone or DHEA concurrently with preventative anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin or heparin) or other platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, ASA should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments.
Prasugrel: (Moderate) Carefully monitor patients for signs and symptoms of bleeding during coadministration of cilostazol and prasugrel. Both agents are platelet inhibitors; therefore, concomitant use may increase the risk of bleeding. Platelet aggregation returns to normal within 96 hours of discontinuing cilostazol.
Protease inhibitors: (Major) Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily when coadministered with protease inhibitors and monitor for an increase in cilostazol-related adverse reactions. Concurrent use may increase cilostazol exposure. Cilostazol is a CYP3A substrate; protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the cilostazol AUC by 117%. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the AUC of cilostazol (single dose) by 73%; the AUC of 4-trans-hydroxycilostazol increased by 141%.
Purine analogs: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of purine analogs, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant platelet inhibitors.
Ranolazine: (Moderate) Ranolazine inhibits CYP3A isoenzymes and may theoretically increase plasma concentrations of CYP3A4 substrates, like cilostazol, potentially leading to adverse reactions.
Relacorilant: (Major) Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily when coadministered with relacorilant and monitor for an increase in cilostazol-related adverse reactions. Concurrent use may increase cilostazol exposure. Cilostazol is a CYP3A substrate; relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the cilostazol AUC by 117%.
Reteplase, r-PA: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and antiplatelet agents is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, consider delaying the initiation of antiplatelet therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Ribociclib: (Major) Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily when coadministered with ribociclib. Monitor for an increase in cilostazol-related adverse reactions. Cilostazol is a CYP3A substrate; ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor at doses of at least 600 mg/day and a moderate inhibitor at doses of 400 mg/day. Coadministration of another strong and moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the cilostazol AUC by 117% and 73%, respectively.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily when coadministered with ribociclib. Monitor for an increase in cilostazol-related adverse reactions. Cilostazol is a CYP3A substrate; ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor at doses of at least 600 mg/day and a moderate inhibitor at doses of 400 mg/day. Coadministration of another strong and moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the cilostazol AUC by 117% and 73%, respectively.
Rilzabrutinib: (Major) Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily when coadministered with rilzabrutinib and monitor for an increase in cilostazol-related adverse reactions. Concurrent use may increase cilostazol exposure. Cilostazol is a CYP3A substrate; rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the AUC of cilostazol (single dose) by 73%; the AUC of 4-trans-hydroxycilostazol increased by 141%.
Riociguat: (Moderate) Coadministration of riociguat and phosphodiesterase inhibitors, including specific phosphodiesterase-5 inhibitors (sildenafil, tadalafil, vardenafil) and nonspecific phosphodiesterase inhibitors (dipyridamole or theophylline, aminophylline) is contraindicated due to the risk of hypotension. Clinical experience with other phosphodidesterase inhibitors (e.g., milrinone, cilostazol, and roflumilast) is limited. The addition of riociguat to a stable sildenafil regimen (20 mg three times a day) resulted in additive hemodynamic effects in an exploratory interaction study in 7 patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). Among patients with PAH on stable sildenafil treatment and riociguat there was one death, possibly related to the combination of these drugs, and a high rate of discontinuation for hypotension.
Ritonavir: (Major) Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily when coadministered with protease inhibitors and monitor for an increase in cilostazol-related adverse reactions. Concurrent use may increase cilostazol exposure. Cilostazol is a CYP3A substrate; protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the cilostazol AUC by 117%. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the AUC of cilostazol (single dose) by 73%; the AUC of 4-trans-hydroxycilostazol increased by 141%.
Rivaroxaban: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of platelet inhibitors such as clopidogrel with rivaroxaban unless the benefit outweighs the risk of increased bleeding. An increase in bleeding time to 45 minutes was observed in two drug interaction studies where clopidogrel (300 mg loading dose followed by 75 mg daily maintenance dose) and rivaroxaban (15 mg single dose) were coadministered in healthy subjects. In the first study, the increase in bleeding time to 45 minutes was observed in approximately 45% of patients. Approximately 30% of patients in the second study had the event. The change in bleeding time was approximately twice the maximum increase seen with either drug alone. No change in the pharmacokinetic parameters of either drug were noted.
Rufinamide: (Minor) Rufinamide is not metabolized through hepatic CYP isozymes; however, it is a weak inducer of CYP3A4. In theory, decreased exposure of drugs that are extensively metabolized by CYP3A4, such as cilostazol, may occur during concurrent use with rufinamide.
Saquinavir: (Major) Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily when coadministered with protease inhibitors and monitor for an increase in cilostazol-related adverse reactions. Concurrent use may increase cilostazol exposure. Cilostazol is a CYP3A substrate; protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the cilostazol AUC by 117%. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the AUC of cilostazol (single dose) by 73%; the AUC of 4-trans-hydroxycilostazol increased by 141%.
Selumetinib: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of platelet inhibitors and selumetinib oral capsules. Selumetinib capsules contain vitamin E which may inhibit platelet aggregation and increase the risk for bleeding. Vitamin E content varies by capsule: each 10 mg capsule contains 32 mg alpha-tocopherol, each 25 mg capsule contains 36 mg alpha-tocopherol. Tolerable Upper Intake Levels of vitamin E vary by age and range from 200 to 1,000 mg alpha-tocopherol per day.
Sertraline: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication in patients receiving platelet inhibitors. Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Moderate) St. John's Wort appears to induce several isoenzymes of the hepatic cytochrome P450 enzyme system. Co-administration of St. John's wort could decrease the efficacy of some medications metabolized by these enzymes, including cilostazol.
Sulindac: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Tenecteplase: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and antiplatelet agents is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, consider delaying the initiation of antiplatelet therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Thioguanine, 6-TG: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of purine analogs, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant platelet inhibitors.
Thrombolytic Agents: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and antiplatelet agents is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, consider delaying the initiation of antiplatelet therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Ticagrelor: (Moderate) Carefully monitor patients for signs and symptoms of bleeding during coadministration of cilostazol and ticagrelor. Both agents are platelet inhibitors; therefore, concomitant use may increase the risk of bleeding. Platelet aggregation returns to normal within 96 hours of discontinuing cilostazol.
Tipranavir: (Major) Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily when coadministered with protease inhibitors and monitor for an increase in cilostazol-related adverse reactions. Concurrent use may increase cilostazol exposure. Cilostazol is a CYP3A substrate; protease inhibitors are moderate to strong CYP3A inhibitors. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the cilostazol AUC by 117%. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the AUC of cilostazol (single dose) by 73%; the AUC of 4-trans-hydroxycilostazol increased by 141%.
Tirofiban: (Moderate) Because cilostazol is a platelet aggregation inhibitor, a potential additive risk for bleeding exists if cilostazol is given with other agent that affect hemostasis such as platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors including abciximab, eptifibatide, and tirofiban.
Tobacco: (Major) Tobacco smoking appears to decrease cilostazol serum concentrations by roughly 20%. There were no statistically significant differences in absolute claudication distance (ACD) at the end of cilostazol treatment during clinical trials in those patients with peripheral arterial disease who were smokers versus those who were not. However, it is unknown if tobacco smoking would contribute to a decreased clinical response to cilostazol when the drug is administered for other uses or when the clinical response to cilostazol is measured by parameters other than ACD. Given the adverse effects that tobacco smoking may have on the peripheral vasculature, patients taking cilostazol should be advised not to smoke tobacco.
Tolmetin: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Topiramate: (Moderate) Concurrent use of topiramate and drugs that affect platelet function such as cilostazol may increase the risk of bleeding. In a pooled analysis of placebo-controlled trials, bleeding was more frequently reported in patients receiving topiramate (4.5%) compared to placebo (2-3%). In those with severe bleeding events, patients were often taking drugs that cause thrombocytopenia or affect platelet function or coagulation. In addition, cilostazol is metabolized by the cytochrome P450 CYP2C19 hepatic isoenzyme and may interact with medications that are inhibitors of CYP2C19, including topiramate.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Major) Cilostazol clearance may be impaired by inhibitors of the CYP3A4 hepatic microsomal isoenzyme, including verapamil. When verapamil is coadministered with cilostazol, the manufacturer recommends that the cilostazol dosage be reduced by 50%.
traZODone: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by trazodone due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., cilostazol, clopidogrel, dipyridamole, ticlopidine, platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors). Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking trazodone concurrently with an antiplatelet medication and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Tucatinib: (Major) Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily when coadministered with tucatinib and monitor for an increase in cilostazol-related adverse reactions. Concurrent use may increase cilostazol exposure. Cilostazol is a CYP3A4 substrate; tucatinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the cilostazol AUC by 117%.
Vemurafenib: (Moderate) Vemurafenib is an inducer of CYP3A4 and decreased plasma concentrations of drugs metabolized by this enzyme, such as cilostazol, could be expected with concurrent use. Use caution, and monitor therapeutic effects of cilostazol when coadministered with vemurafenib.
Venlafaxine: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), such as venlafaxine, and medications that interfere with hemostasis, such as cilostazol. SNRIs affect platelet activation and may interfere with clot formation increasing the risk for bleeding.
Verapamil: (Major) Cilostazol clearance may be impaired by inhibitors of the CYP3A4 hepatic microsomal isoenzyme, including verapamil. When verapamil is coadministered with cilostazol, the manufacturer recommends that the cilostazol dosage be reduced by 50%.
Verteporfin: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of verteporfin with platelet inhibitors is necessary due to the risk of decreased verteporfin efficacy. Verteporfin is a light-activated drug. Once activated, local damage to neovascular endothelium results in a release of procoagulant and vasoactive factors resulting in platelet aggregation, fibrin clot formation, and vasoconstriction. Concomitant use of drugs that decrease platelet aggregation could decrease the efficacy of verteporfin therapy.
Vilazodone: (Moderate) Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vilazodone concurrently with salicylates or other platelet inhibitors and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner. Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vilazodone due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., aspirin, cilostazol, clopidogrel, dipyridamole, ticlopidine, platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors).
Vonoprazan: (Major) Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily when coadministered with vonoprazan and monitor for an increase in cilostazol-related adverse reactions. Concurrent use may increase cilostazol exposure. Cilostazol is a CYP2C19 substrate and vonoprazan is a CYP2C19 inhibitor. Coadministration with another CYP2C19 inhibitor did not significantly affect the metabolism of cilostazol, but the systemic exposure to 3,4-dehydro-cilostazol was increased by 69%.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin: (Major) Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily when coadministered with vonoprazan and monitor for an increase in cilostazol-related adverse reactions. Concurrent use may increase cilostazol exposure. Cilostazol is a CYP2C19 substrate and vonoprazan is a CYP2C19 inhibitor. Coadministration with another CYP2C19 inhibitor did not significantly affect the metabolism of cilostazol, but the systemic exposure to 3,4-dehydro-cilostazol was increased by 69%.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily when coadministered with clarithromycin. Monitor for an increase in cilostazol-related adverse reactions. Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and cilostazol is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the cilostazol AUC by 117%. (Major) Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily when coadministered with vonoprazan and monitor for an increase in cilostazol-related adverse reactions. Concurrent use may increase cilostazol exposure. Cilostazol is a CYP2C19 substrate and vonoprazan is a CYP2C19 inhibitor. Coadministration with another CYP2C19 inhibitor did not significantly affect the metabolism of cilostazol, but the systemic exposure to 3,4-dehydro-cilostazol was increased by 69%.
Vorapaxar: (Moderate) Because vorapaxar and cilostazol inhibit platelet aggregation, a potential additive risk for bleeding exists if they are coadminsitered.
Voriconazole: (Major) Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily when coadministered with voriconazole. Monitor for an increase in cilostazol-related adverse reactions. Voriconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and cilostazol is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the cilostazol AUC by 117%.
Vortioxetine: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., cilostazol, clopidogrel, dipyridamole, ticlopidine, platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors). Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with an antiplatelet medication and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Voxelotor: (Major) Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily when coadministered with voxelotor and monitor for an increase in cilostazol-related adverse reactions. Concurrent use may increase cilostazol exposure. Cilostazol is a CYP3A substrate; voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the AUC of cilostazol (single dose) by 73%; the AUC of 4-trans-hydroxycilostazol increased by 141%.
Warfarin: (Moderate) The safety of cilostazol has not been established with concomitant administration of heparin, other anticoagulants, or thrombolytic agents. Because cilostazol is a platelet aggregation inhibitor, concomitant administration with similar acting drugs could theoretically result in an increased risk of bleeding due to additive pharmacodynamic effects, and combinations of these agents should be approached with caution. While both cilostazol and warfarin are metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP2C19, administration of cilostazol with a single dose of warfarin (25 mg) in healthy volunteers did not affect warfarin metabolism or effect changes in pro-times, bleeding times, or platelet aggregation. However, the effect of concomitant multiple dosing of cilostazol and warfarin has not been evaluated. Patients on anticoagulants should be monitored for changes in response to anticoagulation therapy if cilostazol is administered concurrently. Regularly monitor the INR and other clinical parameters during the chronic concomitant administration of warfarin and cilostazol. Although the risk of bleeding is increased when clopidogrel is used concomitantly with thrombolytic agents, it is common to see patients receive these drugs simultaneously.
Zafirlukast: (Moderate) Cilostazol is extensively metabolized by the cytochrome P450 CYP3A4 hepatic isoenzyme and metabolism may be inhibited by zafirlukast, an inhibitor of CYP3A4.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    headache
    General Information
    Headache, which occurred in 27% of patients taking cilostazol 50 mg PO twice daily and in 34% of patients taking cilostazol 100 mg PO twice daily in clinical trials, was the most common reason for drug discontinuation (3% or more of patients).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    abdominal pain, anorexia, cholelithiasis, colitis, diarrhea, dyspepsia, esophagitis, flatulence, gastritis, hematemesis, melena, nausea, peptic ulcer
    General Information
    Gastrointestinal side effects are common with cilostazol and include diarrhea (12% to 19%), abnormal stools (12% to 15% and defined as 'loose' stools by most patients), dyspepsia (6%), and abdominal pain (4% to 5%). Roughly 1.1% of patients in clinical trials discontinued cilostazol treatment due to diarrhea. Flatulence (2% to 3%) and nausea (6% to 7%) occur at rates comparable to placebo. Other less common (less than 2%) gastrointestinal adverse events reported in cilostazol-treated patients more frequently than in placebo-treated patients in clinical trials and without regard to causality were as follows: anorexia, cholelithiasis, colitis, duodenitis, esophagitis, increased serum gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT) concentrations, gastritis, gastroenteritis, periodontal abscess, peptic ulcer, duodenal ulcer, stomach ulcer, hematemesis, melena, and tongue edema.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspepsia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      flatulence
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      cholelithiasis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      colitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      esophagitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      gastritis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hematemesis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      melena
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      peptic ulcer
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    angina, atrial fibrillation, atrial flutter, cardiac arrest, dizziness, heart failure, hypertension, hypotension, myocardial infarction, orthostatic hypotension, palpitations, peripheral edema, peripheral vasodilation, premature ventricular contractions (PVCs), sinus tachycardia, stroke, supraventricular tachycardia (SVT), syncope, ventricular tachycardia
    General Information
    Dizziness was reported with cilostazol in 9% to 10% of subjects in clinical trials. Cilostazol may induce tachycardia, palpitation, tachyarrhythmia, or hypotension. Common cardiovascular effects of cilostazol include palpitations (5% to 10%) and sinus tachycardia (4%). The increase in heart rate associated with cilostazol is approximately 5 to 7 bpm. Roughly 1.1% of subjects in clinical trials discontinued cilostazol treatment due to palpitations. Peripheral edema was reported in 7% to 9% of subjects. In clinical trials, subjects receiving cilostazol were more likely to experience premature ventricular contractions (PVCs) (less than 2%) or non-sustained ventricular tachycardia (less than 2%) than subjects receiving placebo as evidenced by Holter-monitor recordings. Other cardiovascular-related adverse events reported with cilostazol in less than 2% of subjects include myocardial ischemia, atrial fibrillation, atrial flutter, cardiac arrest, cerebral ischemia, congestive heart failure, hemorrhage, hypotension, myocardial infarction, nodal arrhythmia, supraventricular tachycardia (SVT), orthostatic hypotension, peripheral vasodilation, stroke, syncope, and varicose veins. The incidence of these events was higher in the cilostazol group than the placebo group, but causality has not been established. Angina and hypertension were reported at an incidence of 2% or more in cilostazol-treated subjects in clinical trials but occurred in the placebo group at least as frequently. During postmarketing surveillance, increases in blood pressure have been reported. Left ventricular outflow tract obstruction has been reported in subjects with sigmoid shaped interventricular septum. Monitor individuals for the development of a new systolic murmur or cardiac symptoms after beginning cilostazol therapy. Other medications that are phosphodiesterase III inhibitors have caused decreased survival compared to placebo in individuals with class III or IV heart failure. Repeated oral administration of cilostazol to dogs has produced cardiovascular lesions that included endocardial hemorrhage, fibrosis of the left ventricle, changes in the smooth muscle of coronary artery walls, and intimal thickening of the coronary arteries. It is not clear if similar effects occur in humans.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      supraventricular tachycardia (SVT)
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      ventricular tachycardia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      syncope
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      stroke
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      sinus tachycardia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      premature ventricular contractions (PVCs)
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral vasodilation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      palpitations
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      orthostatic hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      myocardial infarction
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      heart failure
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      cardiac arrest
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      atrial flutter
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      atrial fibrillation
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      angina
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
    Headline
    agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, bleeding, ecchymosis, epistaxis, hematoma, hemoptysis, intracranial bleeding, leukopenia, ocular hemorrhage, platelet dysfunction, purpura, retinal hemorrhage, retroperitoneal bleeding, subdural hematoma, thrombocytopenia, thrombosis, vaginal bleeding
    General Information
    Thrombocytopenia or leukopenia has been reported in patients treated with cilostazol. The thrombocytopenia or leukopenia rarely progress to agranulocytosis when cilostazol is not immediately discontinued; however, the agranulocytosis is reversible upon cilostazol discontinuation. In addition, various types of bleeding (secondary to cilostazol-induced platelet dysfunction) such as ecchymosis, epistaxis, hemoptysis, retroperitoneal bleeding, purpura, ocular hemorrhage, retinal hemorrhage esophageal hemorrhage, gum hemorrhage, rectal hemorrhage, and vaginal bleeding have been reported in less than 2% of cilostazol-treated patients but occurred more frequently than in the placebo group. During postmarketing surveillance, pulmonary and cerebral hemorrhage (intracranial bleeding), extradural hematoma, subdural hematoma, subcutaneous hemorrhage, and aplastic anemia have also been reported. In addition, subacute thrombosis has been reported in patients administered cilostazol in combination with aspirin for prevention of thrombotic complication after coronary stenting.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      agranulocytosis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      aplastic anemia
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      bleeding
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      ecchymosis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hemoptysis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      intracranial bleeding
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      leukopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      platelet dysfunction
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      purpura
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      retroperitoneal bleeding
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      vaginal bleeding
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      ocular hemorrhage
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      retinal hemorrhage
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      epistaxis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hematoma
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      subdural hematoma
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      thrombosis
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    back pain, cough, furunculosis, infection, myalgia, pharyngitis, pruritus, rash (unspecified), rhinitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, urticaria, vertigo, xerosis
    General Information
    Adverse events that occur in 2% or more of patients treated with cilostazol and at a higher rate in the cilostazol 100 mg PO twice daily group than placebo include: cough (3% to 4%), myalgia (2% to 3%), back pain (6% to 7%), infection (10% to 14%), pharyngitis (7% to 10%), rhinitis (7% to 12%), and vertigo (1% to 3%). Rash (unspecified) was reported in clinical trials with an incidence of 2% or more, but occurred in the placebo group at least as frequently as in the cilostazol 100 mg PO twice daily group. Other dermatologic adverse events reported less frequently (less than 2%) but more frequently with cilostazol than with placebo include: xerosis, furunculosis, skin hypertrophy, and urticaria. Pruritus, skin eruptions including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and skin drug eruption (dermatitis medicamentosa) have been reported spontaneously during postmarketing experience.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      myalgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pharyngitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      rhinitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vertigo
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      furunculosis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      back pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      Stevens-Johnson syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      xerosis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    amblyopia, anemia, anxiety, arthralgia, bone pain, chills, conjunctivitis, cystitis, diabetes mellitus, diplopia, edema, fever, gout, hyperlipidemia, hyperuricemia, increased urinary frequency, insomnia, malaise, polycythemia, sinusitis, tinnitus, vaginitis, visual impairment
    General Information
    The following adverse events have also been reported to occur in less than 2% of cilostazol-treated patients at an incidence higher than placebo, but without regard to causality: chills, face edema, generalized edema, fever, malaise, diabetes mellitus, anemia, polycythemia, increased serum creatinine, hyperlipidemia, hyperuricemia, gout, arthralgia, bone pain, bursitis, anxiety, insomnia, neuralgia, asthma, sinusitis, pneumonia, amblyopia, conjunctivitis, blindness (visual impairment), diplopia, ear pain, tinnitus, albuminuria, cystitis, increased urinary frequency, and vaginitis.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      amblyopia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anxiety
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      chills
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      conjunctivitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      cystitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diabetes mellitus
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diplopia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      gout
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperlipidemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperuricemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      malaise
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      sinusitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      tinnitus
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vaginitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      bone pain
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      increased urinary frequency
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      polycythemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      visual impairment
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    azotemia, chest pain (unspecified), elevated hepatic enzymes, hot flashes, hyperglycemia, jaundice
    General Information
    The following adverse events have been reported worldwide during postmarketing experience with cilostazol: chest pain (unspecified), hot flashes, hepatic dysfunction including elevated hepatic enzymes and jaundice, hyperglycemia, interstitial pneumonia, and increased BUN (azotemia).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      azotemia
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      chest pain (unspecified)
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hot flashes
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hyperglycemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      jaundice
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    asthenia, dyspnea, hematuria, hypoesthesia, influenza, paresthesias, vomiting
    General Information
    The following adverse events were seen in clinical trials with an incidence of 2% or more, but occurred in the placebo group at least as frequently as in the cilostazol 100 mg twice daily group: asthenia, vomiting, leg cramps, hypoesthesia, dyspnea, hematuria, urinary tract infection, influenza syndrome, arthritis, paresthesias, and bronchitis.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      hypoesthesia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      influenza
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      hematuria
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      paresthesias
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
    Headline
    QT prolongation
    General Information
    Torsade de pointes and QT prolongation have been reported during postmarketing experience with cilostazol in patients with cardiac disorders (e.g. complete atrioventricular block, heart failure, and bradyarrythmia).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      QT prolongation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To

Description
  Text
  Cilostazol is a platelet aggregation inhibitor with vasodilating activity. It is the first new compound in over 15 years to be FDA approved for the reduction of the symptoms of intermittent claudication. In all manufacturer-supported trials conducted in the US, patients treated with cilostazol had improvements in the maximum distance walked (ACD-absolute claudication distance) on a treadmill; or they had improvements in the time to initial pain, also known as pain-free walking distance or ICD (initial claudication distance). In one clinical trial, patients treated with cilostazol for 12 weeks increased their pain-free walking distances (ICDs) 35% relative to placebo. On subjective assessments, more patients in the cilostazol group reported improvement in their symptoms. Cilostazol is given the trade name "Pletaal" in Japan and other Pacific rim countries, where it has been available since 1988. Non-FDA approved uses of cilostazol have included the treatment of Buerger's disease, vascular sclerosis complicating diabetes mellitus, and the improvement of symptoms in patients with chronic cerebral ischemia. The FDA approved cilostazol for the reduction of symptoms related to intermittent claudication on January 15, 1999.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  The pharmacologic effects of cilostazol are multifactorial and include antithrombotic, antiplatelet, and vasodilatory actions. The actions of cilostazol with respect to peripheral arterial disease may be particularly significant within the microcirculation. Cilostazol inhibits platelet aggregation caused by ADP, arachidonic acid, collagen, epinephrine, thrombin, and shear stress; it is 10—30 times more potent than aspirin in this regard, but cilostazol does not inhibit prostaglandin I2 synthesis. Cilostazol and its metabolites reversibly inhibit platelet aggregation via inhibition of phosphodiesterase (PDE) type III activity. This action suppresses degradation of cyclic AMP and increases levels of cyclic AMP in platelets. Cyclic AMP levels are also increased in the vascular tissue, promoting vasodilation. The vasodilatory actions of cilostazol are greater on femoral arteries than on vertebral, carotid, or superior mesenteric arteries. Renal arteries do not vasodilate in response to cilostazol administration.
 
Cilostazol favorably alters the lipid profile, decreasing plasma triglycerides by roughly 15% and increasing HDL cholesterol by roughly 10%. Cilostazol also decreases remnant lipoprotein particles (RLPs) of plasma chylomicrons and VLDLs, a lipid fraction that has been shown to contribute to platelet aggregation. The exact mechanism by which cilostazol induces these favorable effects on lipoproteins is currently unknown, but it is possibly due to actions of increased cyclic AMP.
 
Finally, cilostazol inhibits the proliferation of vascular smooth muscle cells in vitro; this action may be mediated by increases in cyclic AMP. In addition, cilostazol suppresses intracellular heparin-binding EGF-like growth factor in smooth muscle cells. In theory, by interfering with the proliferation of smooth muscle cells, cilostazol may potentially inhibit the initiation and progression of atherosclerosis..

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    The absolute bioavailability of cilostazol after oral administration is not known. Administration with a high fat meal increases cilostazol absorption, with an approximately 90% increase in Cmax and 25% increase in AUC.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    The pharmacokinetics of cilostazol and its metabolites were similar in subjects with mild hepatic disease as compared to healthy subjects. Mild hepatic impairment did not affect cilostazol protein binding. Subjects with moderate or severe hepatic impairment have not been studied.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    The total pharmacologic activity of cilostazol and its metabolites was similar in subjects with mild to moderate renal impairment and in healthy subjects. The free fraction of cilostazol was 27% higher in subjects with renal impairment than in healthy volunteers. Severe renal impairment increases metabolite concentrations and alters protein binding of the parent. The expected pharmacologic activity, however, based on plasma concentrations and relative phosphodiesterase III inhibiting potency of parent drug and metabolites, appeared little changed. Subjects on dialysis have not been studied, but, it is unlikely that cilostazol can be removed efficiently by dialysis because of its high protein binding.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    The total and unbound oral clearances, adjusted for body weight, of cilostazol and its metabolites were not significantly different with respect to age (50 to 80 years).
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    The total and unbound oral clearances, adjusted for body weight, of cilostazol and its metabolites were not significantly different with respect to gender.
    Name
    Other
    Description
    Smokers
Population pharmacokinetic analysis suggests that smoking decreased cilostazol exposure by about 20%.
  Text
  Cilostazol is administered orally. Cilostazol pharmacokinetics are dose proportional. Cilostazol is absorbed after oral administration. Cilostazol is 95% to 98% protein bound, predominantly to albumin. The binding for 3,4-dehydro-cilostazol is 97.4% and for the metabolite 4'-trans-hydroxy-cilostazol is 66%. Cilostazol and its active metabolites accumulate about 2-fold with chronic administration and reach steady-state blood concentrations within a few days. Cilostazol is extensively metabolized by hepatic cytochrome P450 enzymes, mainly 3A4, and, to a lesser extent, 2C19, with metabolites largely excreted in urine. The enzyme responsible for metabolism of 3,4-dehydro-cilostazol, the most active of the metabolites, is unknown. Of the metabolites, 2 metabolites are active, with 1 metabolite appearing to account for at least 50% of the pharmacologic (phosphodiesterase III inhibition) activity after administration of cilostazol. After oral administration of 100 mg radiolabeled cilostazol, 56% of the total analytes in plasma was cilostazol, 15% was 3,4-dehydro-cilostazol (4 to 7 times as active as cilostazol), and 4% was 4'-trans-hydroxy-cilostazol (20% as active as cilostazol). The primary route of elimination of cilostazol was via the urine (74%), with the remainder excreted in feces (20%). No measurable amount of unchanged cilostazol was excreted in the urine, and less than 2% of the dose was excreted as 3,4-dehydro-cilostazol. About 30% of the dose was excreted in urine as 4'-trans-hydroxy-cilostazol. The remainder was excreted as other metabolites, none of which exceeded 5%. Cilostazol and its active metabolites have apparent elimination half-lives of about 11 to 13 hours.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes: CYP3A4, CYP2C19

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Administer tablets on an empty stomach at least 30 minutes before or 2 hours after breakfast and dinner with a full glass of water.
Do not administer with grapefruit juice.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    200 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Elderly
    Max Dosage
    200 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Dose adjustments do not appear necessary in patients with mild, stable hepatic impairment. Cilostazol has not been studied in patients with moderate to severe hepatic disease.
  Renal Impairment
  Dose adjustments do not appear to be necessary for patients with mild to moderate renal impairment (i.e., SCr 2.5 mg/dL), but specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in this patient population are not available.
 
Intermittent hemodialysis
No in vivo data are available. Since cilostazol is highly-protein bound, it is unlikely that it can be cleared by hemodialysis.
 
Peritoneal dialysis
No in vivo data are available. Since cilostazol is highly-protein bound, it is unlikely that it can be cleared by peritoneal dialysis (CAPD).
