=== Aclidinium/Formoterol — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 5136)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Aclidinium; formoterol is a combination of aclidinium, a respiratory long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA), and formoterol, a long-acting beta-2 agonist (LABA) indicated for the maintenance treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).

Routes: inhalation; Common adult doses: 800 mcg/day of aclidinium and 24 mcg/day of formoterol via oral inhalation (i.e., 1 inhalation twice daily).

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): asthma-related death, bronchospasm, wheezing, atrial fibrillation, chest pain (unspecified), hyperglycemia, hypokalemia, palpitations, qt prolongation, st-t wave changes, supraventricular tachycardia (svt), cough, infection, influenza, sinusitis, throat irritation, dizziness, headache, insomnia, arthralgia, back pain, muscle cramps, musculoskeletal pain, anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, pruritus, rash, urticaria, blurred vision, ocular hypertension

In an Overdose: High doses or overdosage of formoterol can lead to clinically significant QT prolongation, which can produce ventricular arrhythmia.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Aclidinium; formoterol is contraindicated in individuals with a severe milk protein hypersensitivity since the product contains lactose, which contains milk proteins.

ACLIDINIUM/FORMOTEROL

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Duaklir

Indication Specific Dosing

For the maintenance treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) (e.g., chronic bronchitis or emphysema)

Respiratory (Inhalation) dosage (inhalation powder)
Adults


400 mcg aclidinium; 12 mcg formoterol (1 actuation of 400 mcg aclidinium; 12 mcg formoterol) inhaled by mouth twice daily. Max: 800 mcg/day aclidinium; 24 mcg/day formoterol (2 actuations/day).


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Aclidinium; formoterol is contraindicated in individuals with a severe milk protein hypersensitivity since the product contains lactose, which contains milk proteins. If an immediate hypersensitivity reaction occurs, immediately discontinue this inhalation and consider alternative treatment.

Treatment-Related Restrictions of Use

Aclidinium; formoterol products are not FDA-approved for the treatment of asthma. All long-acting beta agonists (LABAs) are contraindicated for monotherapy treatment of asthma and, in patients with asthma, must be used with an asthma controller medication (i.e., inhaled corticosteroid).
Do not use aclidinium; formoterol as a reliever therapy for acute bronchospasm. Acute symptoms should be treated with an inhaled short-acting beta agonist (SABA). Increasing use of inhaled SABAs is one marker of deteriorating COPD. In this situation, the patient requires immediate reevaluation with reassessment of the treatment regimen. Aclidinium; formoterol inhalation solution should not be initiated in people with acutely deteriorating COPD, which may be a life-threatening condition. Aclidinium; formoterol inhalation solution has not been studied in patients with acutely deteriorating COPD. The use of aclidinium; formoterol in this setting is inappropriate.

General Information


Do not use aclidinium; formoterol in combination with another long-acting beta agonist (LABA) due to the risk for overdose. Do not exceed the maximum recommended aclidinium; formoterol daily dosage. Clinically significant cardiovascular effects and fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs.


cardiac arrhythmias, coronary artery disease, hypertension


Formoterol, like other beta2-agonists and sympathomimetic amines, should be used with caution in patients with cardiovascular disorders, especially coronary insufficiency (coronary artery disease), cardiac arrhythmias, and hypertension. Formoterol can produce a clinically significant cardiovascular effect in some patients as measured by increases in pulse rate, systolic or diastolic blood pressure, and cardiac arrhythmias, such as supraventricular tachycardia and extrasystoles. If such effects occur, aclidinium; formoterol may need to be discontinued.


diabetes mellitus, hyperthyroidism, seizure disorder


Aclidinium; formoterol should be used cautiously in patients with hyperthyroidism (thyrotoxicosis), diabetes mellitus, history of seizure disorder, or other unusual responsiveness to other sympathomimetic amines. Beta-agonists may cause transient hyperglycemia. Doses of the related beta2-agonist albuterol, when administered intravenously, have been reported to aggravate preexisting diabetes mellitus and ketoacidosis.


closed-angle glaucoma


Aclidinium; formoterol should be used with caution in individuals with closed-angle glaucoma since aclidinium may increase intraocular pressure and aqueous outflow resistance. Treated individuals should contact a care provider immediately if they experience temporary ocular pain, mydriasis, cycloplegia, blurred vision, conjunctivitis, or visual impairment.


breast-feeding


There are no data on the presence of aclidinium; formoterol in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the patient's clinical need for aclidinium; formoterol, and any potential adverse effects on the breast-fed child from the medication or from the underlying maternal medical condition. Aclidinium and formoterol have been detected in the milk of lactating rats; concentrations of aclidinium have been up to 10 to 14-fold higher in the milk than in the blood of the rats. Due to the rapid hydrolysis of aclidinium to inactive metabolites, use of this medication produces low maternal serum levels, limiting the risk of exposure to a breast-fed child. Inhaled bronchodilators such as formoterol are considered acceptable to use while breast-feeding because of low maternal serum levels and bioavailability.


bladder obstruction, prostatic hypertrophy, urinary retention


Aclidinium; formoterol should be used with caution in people with urinary retention. Prescribers and patients should be alert for signs and symptoms of urinary retention (e.g., difficulty passing urine, painful urination), especially in people with prostatic hypertrophy or bladder obstruction. Instruct treated patients to consult a care provider immediately if any of these signs or symptoms develop.


labor, pregnancy


Data are insufficient to advise a drug-associated risk of aclidinium; formoterol use during pregnancy. Because of the potential for beta-agonist interference with uterine contractility, restrict use of aclidinium; formoterol during labor to those in whom the benefits clearly outweigh the risks. In an observational cohort study (n = 33), 30 patients used formoterol in the first trimester, 2 patients during the second trimester, and 1 patient during the third trimester. Twenty-eight of 31 pregnancies resulted in live births; 3 were spontaneous abortions. Of the 25 live births, 5 neonates were born prematurely at 31 to 36 weeks. Two congenital anomalies were reported; one in a premature infant (fetal heart rate anomaly) and one in a full-term infant (pyloric stenosis). Formoterol treatment was used during labor and delivery for 16 of 25 pregnancies, including in the pregnant people who had 4 infants born prematurely.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Data are insufficient to advise a drug-associated risk of aclidinium; formoterol use during pregnancy. Because of the potential for beta-agonist interference with uterine contractility, restrict use of aclidinium; formoterol during labor to those in whom the benefits clearly outweigh the risks. In an observational cohort study (n = 33), 30 patients used formoterol in the first trimester, 2 patients during the second trimester, and 1 patient during the third trimester. Twenty-eight of 31 pregnancies resulted in live births; 3 were spontaneous abortions. Of the 25 live births, 5 neonates were born prematurely at 31 to 36 weeks. Two congenital anomalies were reported; one in a premature infant (fetal heart rate anomaly) and one in a full-term infant (pyloric stenosis). Formoterol treatment was used during labor and delivery for 16 of 25 pregnancies, including in the pregnant people who had 4 infants born prematurely.


Interactions

Acebutolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant pseudoephedrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant pseudoephedrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant pseudoephedrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Acetaminophen; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Acetaminophen; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Acetaminophen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant pseudoephedrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Amphetamine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine Salts: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Anticholinergics: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufacturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
Arformoterol: (Major) Formoterol should not be used in conjunction with other medications containing a long-acting beta-2 agonist for any reason, as overdose may result. Coadministration can result in overdosage. Clinically significant cardiovascular effects and fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. Acute symptoms should be treated with inhaled short-acting beta-2 agonists (SABA) such as albuterol. SABAs should not be used on a regular basis (e.g., 4 times a day) while taking formoterol. Increasing SABA use is a sign of deteriorating disease for which prompt medical attention is required. Prompt re-evaluation of the patient and their COPD treatment regimen should occur if formoterol no longer controls symptoms of bronchoconstriction, the patient's SABA rescue becomes less effective, or the patient requires more SABA rescue doses than usual. Use formoterol and drugs known to prolong the QTc interval together with extreme caution; this combination may increase the risk of cardiovascular effects and ventricular arrhythmias; this includes combination with other beta-agonists.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Atenolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used. (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Atomoxetine: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant use of atomoxetine and a beta-agonist. Concomitant use of atomoxetine and IV albuterol has been observed to potentiate the increases in blood pressure and heart rate observed with IV albuterol alone; this effect has not been observed with inhaled albuterol dosage forms.
Atropine: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufacturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufacturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Belladonna; Opium: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufacturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufacturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
Benzphetamine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Benztropine: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufacturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
Beta-adrenergic blockers: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Betaxolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Bisoprolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used. (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant pseudoephedrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant pseudoephedrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufacturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
Bumetanide: (Moderate) Use beta-agonists and loop diuretics with caution due to risk for ECG changes and/or hypokalemia. The ECG changes and/or hypokalemia that may result from administration of loop diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Caffeine; Sodium Benzoate: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Carteolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant pseudoephedrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant pseudoephedrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufacturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
Chlorothiazide: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant pseudoephedrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant pseudoephedrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant pseudoephedrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Chlorthalidone: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Cisapride: (Contraindicated) QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. Because of the potential for TdP, use of other drugs that might increase the QT interval is contraindicated with cisapride. Beta-agonists may be associated with adverse cardiovascular effects including QT interval prolongation, usually at higher doses and/or when associated with hypokalemia.
Cocaine: (Moderate) Additive effects and increased toxicity might be observed when using cocaine with beta-agonists, which are sympathomimetic agents. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive adrenergic stimulation and side effects, such as nervousness, insomnia, palpitations, or adverse cardiovascular effects.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant pseudoephedrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Desloratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant pseudoephedrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant pseudoephedrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant pseudoephedrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant pseudoephedrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Dichlorphenamide: (Moderate) Use dichlorphenamide and arformoterol or formoterol together with caution. Metabolic acidosis is listed by the manufacturers of arformoterol and formoterol as an adverse reaction seen with beta-2 agonists but would be rare with normal doses of arformoterol or formoterol. Metabolic acidosis has been reported with dichlorphenamide. Concurrent use may increase the severity of metabolic acidosis. Measure sodium bicarbonate concentrations at baseline and periodically during dichlorphenamide treatment. If metabolic acidosis occurs or persists, consider reducing the dose or discontinuing dichlorphenamide therapy.
Dicyclomine: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufacturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
Diethylpropion: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufacturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
DOBUTamine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
DOPamine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
ePHEDrine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
ePHEDrine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Ergotamine; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Esmolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Ethacrynic Acid: (Moderate) Use beta-agonists and loop diuretics with caution due to risk for ECG changes and/or hypokalemia. The ECG changes and/or hypokalemia that may result from administration of loop diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded.
Fexofenadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant pseudoephedrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
flavoxATE: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufacturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
Fluticasone; Salmeterol: (Major) Formoterol should not be used in conjunction with other medications containing a long-acting beta-2 agonist for any reason, as overdose may result. Coadministration can result in overdosage. Clinically significant cardiovascular effects and fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. Acute symptoms should be treated with inhaled short-acting beta-2 agonists (SABA) such as albuterol. SABAs should not be used on a regular basis (e.g., 4 times a day) while taking formoterol. Increasing SABA use is a sign of deteriorating disease for which prompt medical attention is required. Prompt re-evaluation of the patient and their COPD treatment regimen should occur if formoterol no longer controls symptoms of bronchoconstriction, the patient's SABA rescue becomes less effective, or the patient requires more SABA rescue doses than usual. Use formoterol and drugs known to prolong the QTc interval together with extreme caution; this combination may increase the risk of cardiovascular effects and ventricular arrhythmias; this includes combination with other beta-agonists.
Fluticasone; Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Major) Formoterol should not be used in conjunction with other medications containing a long-acting beta-2 agonist for any reason, as overdose may result. Coadministration can result in overdosage. Clinically significant cardiovascular effects and fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. Acute symptoms should be treated with inhaled short-acting beta-2 agonists (SABA) such as albuterol. SABAs should not be used on a regular basis (e.g., 4 times a day) while taking formoterol. Increasing SABA use is a sign of deteriorating disease for which prompt medical attention is required. Prompt re-evaluation of the patient and their COPD treatment regimen should occur if formoterol no longer controls symptoms of bronchoconstriction, the patient's SABA rescue becomes less effective, or the patient requires more SABA rescue doses than usual. Use formoterol and drugs known to prolong the QTc interval together with extreme caution; this combination may increase the risk of cardiovascular effects and ventricular arrhythmias; this includes combination with other beta-agonists. (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufaturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
Fluticasone; Vilanterol: (Major) Formoterol should not be used in conjunction with other medications containing a long-acting beta-2 agonist for any reason, as overdose may result. Coadministration can result in overdosage. Clinically significant cardiovascular effects and fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. Acute symptoms should be treated with inhaled short-acting beta-2 agonists (SABA) such as albuterol. SABAs should not be used on a regular basis (e.g., 4 times a day) while taking formoterol. Increasing SABA use is a sign of deteriorating disease for which prompt medical attention is required. Prompt re-evaluation of the patient and their COPD treatment regimen should occur if formoterol no longer controls symptoms of bronchoconstriction, the patient's SABA rescue becomes less effective, or the patient requires more SABA rescue doses than usual. Use formoterol and drugs known to prolong the QTc interval together with extreme caution; this combination may increase the risk of cardiovascular effects and ventricular arrhythmias; this includes combination with other beta-agonists.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Furosemide: (Moderate) Use beta-agonists and loop diuretics with caution due to risk for ECG changes and/or hypokalemia. The ECG changes and/or hypokalemia that may result from administration of loop diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded.
Glycopyrrolate: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufacturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufacturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant pseudoephedrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufacturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Hyoscyamine: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufacturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufacturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant pseudoephedrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Ipratropium: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufaturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
Ipratropium; Albuterol: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufaturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Isocarboxazid: (Moderate) Use beta-agonists with caution in patients receiving concomitant monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or within 14 days of stopping treatment with MAOIs because the action of beta-agonists on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated.
Isoproterenol: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Itraconazole: (Moderate) Use itraconazole with caution in combination with beta-agonists as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Itraconazole has been associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Beta-agonists may be associated with adverse cardiovascular effects including QT interval prolongation, usually at higher doses, when associated with hypokalemia, or when used with other drugs known to prolong the QT interval. This risk may be more clinically significant with long-acting beta-agonists as compared to short-acting beta-agonists.
Ketoconazole: (Moderate) Formoterol, as with other long-acting beta-agonists, should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with drugs known to prolong the QTc interval like ketoconazole because the effect of adrenergic agonists on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated. Drugs that are known to prolong the QTc interval have an increased risk of ventricular arrhythmias. Ketoconazole has been associated with prolongation of the QT interval and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Labetalol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Landiolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Levobunolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Levoketoconazole: (Moderate) Formoterol, as with other long-acting beta-agonists, should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with drugs known to prolong the QTc interval like ketoconazole because the effect of adrenergic agonists on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated. Drugs that are known to prolong the QTc interval have an increased risk of ventricular arrhythmias. Ketoconazole has been associated with prolongation of the QT interval and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Levothyroxine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant beta-agonist and thyroid hormone use. Concurrent use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone. Thyroid hormones may increase the risk of coronary insufficiency when sympathomimetic agents are administered to patients with coronary artery disease.
Levothyroxine; Liothyronine (Porcine): (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant beta-agonist and thyroid hormone use. Concurrent use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone. Thyroid hormones may increase the risk of coronary insufficiency when sympathomimetic agents are administered to patients with coronary artery disease.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Linezolid: (Moderate) Linezolid may enhance the hypertensive effect of beta-agonists. Closely monitor for increased blood pressure during coadministration. Linezolid is an antibiotic that is also a weak, reversible nonselective inhibitor of monoamine oxidase (MAO). Therefore, linezolid has the potential for interaction with adrenergic agents, such as the beta-agonists.
Liothyronine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant beta-agonist and thyroid hormone use. Concurrent use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone. Thyroid hormones may increase the risk of coronary insufficiency when sympathomimetic agents are administered to patients with coronary artery disease.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Loop diuretics: (Moderate) Use beta-agonists and loop diuretics with caution due to risk for ECG changes and/or hypokalemia. The ECG changes and/or hypokalemia that may result from administration of loop diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded.
Loratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant pseudoephedrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Methacholine: (Major) Discontinue use of aclidinium 168 hours or more before a methacholine challenge test. Aclidinium inhibits the airway response to methacholine. (Major) Discontinue use of formoterol 36 hours before a methacholine challenge test. Beta-agonists inhibit the airway response to methacholine.
Methamphetamine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Methenamine; Sodium Acid Phosphate; Methylene Blue; Hyoscyamine: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufacturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
Methscopolamine: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufacturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
metOLazone: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Metoprolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used. (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Midodrine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: (Moderate) Use beta-agonists with caution in patients receiving concomitant monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or within 14 days of stopping treatment with MAOIs because the action of beta-agonists on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated.
Nadolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant pseudoephedrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Nebivolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Neostigmine; Glycopyrrolate: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufacturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
Norepinephrine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Olodaterol: (Major) Formoterol should not be used in conjunction with other medications containing a long-acting beta-2 agonist for any reason, as overdose may result. Coadministration can result in overdosage. Clinically significant cardiovascular effects and fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. Acute symptoms should be treated with inhaled short-acting beta-2 agonists (SABA) such as albuterol. SABAs should not be used on a regular basis (e.g., 4 times a day) while taking formoterol. Increasing SABA use is a sign of deteriorating disease for which prompt medical attention is required. Prompt re-evaluation of the patient and their COPD treatment regimen should occur if formoterol no longer controls symptoms of bronchoconstriction, the patient's SABA rescue becomes less effective, or the patient requires more SABA rescue doses than usual. Use formoterol and drugs known to prolong the QTc interval together with extreme caution; this combination may increase the risk of cardiovascular effects and ventricular arrhythmias; this includes combination with other beta-agonists.
oxyBUTYnin: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufacturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
Phendimetrazine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Phenelzine: (Moderate) Use beta-agonists with caution in patients receiving concomitant monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or within 14 days of stopping treatment with MAOIs because the action of beta-agonists on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufacturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
Phentermine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant phentermine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant phentermine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Pindolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Procarbazine: (Major) Procarbazine has MAOI activity and the cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use of MAOIs. Although no data are available, procarbazine may interact similarly. Close observation for such effects is prudent, particularly if beta-agonists are administered within two weeks of stopping the MAOI.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant pseudoephedrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant pseudoephedrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Racepinephrine: (Major) Racepinephrine is a sympathomimetic drug with agonist actions at both the alpha and beta receptors. Patients using prescription beta-agonists for the treatment of asthma should generally avoid the concurrent use of racepinephrine inhalation since additive cardiovascular and nervous system adverse effects are possible, some which may be undesirable.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) The concomitant use of rasagiline and sympathomimetic agents was not allowed in clinical studies; therefore, caution is advised during concurrent use of rasagiline and respiratory adrenergic agents (e.g., the beta-agonists). Although sympathomimetic agents are contraindicated for use with traditional non-selective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), hypertensive reactions generally are not expected to occur during concurrent use with rasagiline because of the selective monoamine oxidase-B (MAO-B) inhibition of rasagiline at manufacturer recommended doses. However, the cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use of MAOIs. At least one case of hypertension occurred in a patient with previous episodes of high blood pressure who was receiving albuterol and selegiline, a selective MAOI related to rasagiline, concurrently. Close observation for such effects is prudent, particularly if beta-2 agonists are administered during or within 2 weeks of use of an MAOI.
Ribociclib: (Moderate) Due to a possible risk for QT prolongation, ribociclib and long-acting beta-agonists should be used together cautiously. Beta-agonists may be associated with adverse cardiovascular effects including QT interval prolongation, usually at higher doses, when associated with hypokalemia, or when used with other drugs known to prolong the QT interval like ribociclib. This risk may be more clinically significant with long-acting beta-agonists such as formoterol as compared to short-acting beta-agonists.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Moderate) Due to a possible risk for QT prolongation, ribociclib and long-acting beta-agonists should be used together cautiously. Beta-agonists may be associated with adverse cardiovascular effects including QT interval prolongation, usually at higher doses, when associated with hypokalemia, or when used with other drugs known to prolong the QT interval like ribociclib. This risk may be more clinically significant with long-acting beta-agonists such as formoterol as compared to short-acting beta-agonists.
Salmeterol: (Major) Formoterol should not be used in conjunction with other medications containing a long-acting beta-2 agonist for any reason, as overdose may result. Coadministration can result in overdosage. Clinically significant cardiovascular effects and fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. Acute symptoms should be treated with inhaled short-acting beta-2 agonists (SABA) such as albuterol. SABAs should not be used on a regular basis (e.g., 4 times a day) while taking formoterol. Increasing SABA use is a sign of deteriorating disease for which prompt medical attention is required. Prompt re-evaluation of the patient and their COPD treatment regimen should occur if formoterol no longer controls symptoms of bronchoconstriction, the patient's SABA rescue becomes less effective, or the patient requires more SABA rescue doses than usual. Use formoterol and drugs known to prolong the QTc interval together with extreme caution; this combination may increase the risk of cardiovascular effects and ventricular arrhythmias; this includes combination with other beta-agonists.
Scopolamine: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufacturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Theophylline, Aminophylline: (Moderate) Beta-agonists are commonly used in conjunction with aminophylline or theophylline therapy. Concomitant use can cause additive CNS stimulation; some patients may experience tremor or nervousness with combined use. More serious effects are rare, but may result in additive cardiovascular effects such as increased blood pressure and heart rate. Methylxanthine derivatives, ((e.g., theophylline and aminophylline) may rarely aggravate the hypokalemic effect seen with beta-agonists. Consider checking potassium levels if clinically indicated. (Moderate) Beta-agonists are commonly used in conjunction with aminophylline or theophylline therapy. Concomitant use can cause additive CNS stimulation; some patients may experience tremor or nervousness with combined use. More serious effects are rare, but may result in additive cardiovascular effects such as increased blood pressure and heart rate. Methylxanthine derivatives, (e.g., theophylline, aminophylline) may rarely aggravate the hypokalemic effect seen with beta-agonists. Consider checking potassium levels if clinically indicated.
Thiazide diuretics: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Thyroid hormones: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant beta-agonist and thyroid hormone use. Concurrent use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone. Thyroid hormones may increase the risk of coronary insufficiency when sympathomimetic agents are administered to patients with coronary artery disease.
Timolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Tiotropium: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufaturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
Tiotropium; Olodaterol: (Major) Formoterol should not be used in conjunction with other medications containing a long-acting beta-2 agonist for any reason, as overdose may result. Coadministration can result in overdosage. Clinically significant cardiovascular effects and fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. Acute symptoms should be treated with inhaled short-acting beta-2 agonists (SABA) such as albuterol. SABAs should not be used on a regular basis (e.g., 4 times a day) while taking formoterol. Increasing SABA use is a sign of deteriorating disease for which prompt medical attention is required. Prompt re-evaluation of the patient and their COPD treatment regimen should occur if formoterol no longer controls symptoms of bronchoconstriction, the patient's SABA rescue becomes less effective, or the patient requires more SABA rescue doses than usual. Use formoterol and drugs known to prolong the QTc interval together with extreme caution; this combination may increase the risk of cardiovascular effects and ventricular arrhythmias; this includes combination with other beta-agonists. (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufaturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
Torsemide: (Moderate) Use beta-agonists and loop diuretics with caution due to risk for ECG changes and/or hypokalemia. The ECG changes and/or hypokalemia that may result from administration of loop diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded.
Tranylcypromine: (Moderate) Use beta-agonists with caution in patients receiving concomitant monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or within 14 days of stopping treatment with MAOIs because the action of beta-agonists on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Trihexyphenidyl: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufacturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
Umeclidinium: (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufaturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Major) Formoterol should not be used in conjunction with other medications containing a long-acting beta-2 agonist for any reason, as overdose may result. Coadministration can result in overdosage. Clinically significant cardiovascular effects and fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. Acute symptoms should be treated with inhaled short-acting beta-2 agonists (SABA) such as albuterol. SABAs should not be used on a regular basis (e.g., 4 times a day) while taking formoterol. Increasing SABA use is a sign of deteriorating disease for which prompt medical attention is required. Prompt re-evaluation of the patient and their COPD treatment regimen should occur if formoterol no longer controls symptoms of bronchoconstriction, the patient's SABA rescue becomes less effective, or the patient requires more SABA rescue doses than usual. Use formoterol and drugs known to prolong the QTc interval together with extreme caution; this combination may increase the risk of cardiovascular effects and ventricular arrhythmias; this includes combination with other beta-agonists. (Moderate) Although aclidinium is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation after inhalation, there is the potential for aclidinium to have additive anticholinergic effects when administered with other anticholinergics or antimuscarinics. Per the manufaturer, avoid concomitant administration of aclidinium with other anticholinergic medications, when possible.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.


Adverse Reaction
asthma-related death, bronchospasm, wheezing


An increase in the need for rescue inhaler use and/or worsening wheezing may occur during therapy with aclidinium; formoterol; these are symptoms of a deterioration of the underlying respiratory condition, a potentially life-threatening condition. Advise patients not to exceed recommended doses of this medicine, but instead, seek immediate medical attention if such symptoms occur. Like other inhaled medications, aclidinium; formoterol can produce paradoxical bronchospasm, which may be life-threatening. If paradoxical bronchospasm occurs, treat immediately with an inhaled short-acting bronchodilator, discontinue aclidinium; formoterol immediately, and institute alternative therapy. Formoterol is a long-acting beta-agonist (LABA). Based on data from controlled clinical trials, including the SMART and SNS trials, it has been determined that use of a LABA, such as formoterol, as asthma monotherapy increases the risk of asthma-related death and may increase the risk of asthma-related hospitalization in pediatric (children and adolescent) patients. Postmarketing experience in patients with asthma has revealed serious exacerbations of asthma, including fatal respiratory events (asthma-related death), associated with the use of LABAs. When LABAs are used in fixed-dose combination with inhaled corticosteroids (ICS), data from large clinical trials do not show a significant increase in the risk of serious asthma-related events (hospitalizations, intubations, death) compared with ICS alone. These findings are considered a class effect of LABA monotherapy. In most cases, serious acute respiratory events have occurred in patients with severe asthma and/or in patients in whom asthma has been acutely deteriorating, but such events have also occurred in patients with less severe asthma. These findings pertain only to patients who have asthma.


atrial fibrillation, chest pain (unspecified), hyperglycemia, hypokalemia, palpitations, QT prolongation, ST-T wave changes, supraventricular tachycardia (SVT)


Formoterol can produce clinically significant cardiovascular effects in some patients, as measured by pulse rate, blood pressure, and/or symptoms. Although such effects are uncommon after administration of aclidinium; formoterol at recommended doses, if they occur, the drug may need to be discontinued. In addition, beta-agonists have been reported to rarely produce ECG changes such as ST-T wave changes (e.g., flattening of the T wave, ST segment depression, and QT prolongation); however, the clinical significance of this at usual doses is unknown. High doses or overdosage of formoterol can lead to clinically significant QT prolongation, which can produce ventricular arrhythmia. Cardiac arrhythmias (atrial fibrillation, supraventricular tachycardia (SVT), and supraventricular extrasystoles), chest pain (unspecified), and palpitations have been associated with the formoterol component. Increased blood creatine phosphokinase was reported in more than 1% but less than 3% of patients receiving aclidinium; formoterol. As with other beta-2 adrenergic agonists, formoterol may rarely produce significant hypokalemia in some patients, which has the potential to produce adverse cardiovascular effects. The decrease is usually transient, not requiring supplementation. Correct pre-existing hypokalemia prior to beta-agonist administration. In patients with severe COPD, hypokalemia may be potentiated by hypoxia and concomitant treatment, which may increase the susceptibility for cardiac arrhythmias. Inhalation of high doses of beta-2 adrenergic agonist may produce hyperglycemia.


cough, infection, influenza, sinusitis, throat irritation


Respiratory and infectious adverse reactions reported in two, 24-week clinical studies with aclidinium; formoterol (n = 720) in patients with COPD with an incidence of more than 1% but less than 3% include: cough, urinary tract infection, sinusitis, influenza, oropharyngeal pain (throat irritation), and tooth abscess. Upper respiratory tract infection was reported in 8.9% of patients receiving aclidinium; formoterol compared to 6.3% of subjects receiving placebo.


dizziness, headache, insomnia


Headache was reported in 6.3% of patients receiving aclidinium; formoterol compared to 5.1% of subjects receiving placebo. Dizziness and sleep disturbances (insomnia) were reported in more than 1% but less than 3% of patients in the two, 24-week clinical studies with aclidinium; formoterol.


arthralgia, back pain, muscle cramps, musculoskeletal pain


Musculoskeletal adverse reactions reported in two, 24-week clinical studies with aclidinium; formoterol (n = 720) in patients with COPD with an incidence of more than 1% but less than 3% include: arthralgia, muscle cramps or spasms, pain in extremity, and musculoskeletal pain. Back pain was reported in 3.8% of patients receiving aclidinium; formoterol compared to 3.4% of subjects receiving placebo.


xerostomia


Dry mouth (xerostomia) was reported in more than 1% but less than 3% of patients receiving aclidinium; formoterol (n = 720) in two, 24-week clinical studies.


anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, pruritus, rash, urticaria


Immediate hypersensitivity and anaphylactoid reactions, including angioedema, rash, urticaria, bronchospasm, and pruritus have been reported in patients receiving aclidinium; formoterol. If an allergic reaction occurs, discontinue the inhaler immediately and institute alternative therapy.


blurred vision, ocular hypertension, ocular pain


Acute narrow-angle glaucoma (ocular hypertension resulting in ocular pain or discomfort, blurred vision, visual halos or colored images in association with red eyes from conjunctival congestion and corneal edema) may occur with anticholinergic use, including inhaled aclidinium. Aclidinium; formoterol may increase intraocular pressure and aqueous outflow resistance in patients with closed-angle glaucoma. While increased intraocular pressure is rare with usual inhalational use, the risk increases if the medication powder inadvertently gets into the eyes. Instruct patients to seek immediate medical attention if such symptoms occur.


urinary retention


New or worsening urinary retention may occur in patients receiving anticholinergic agents, such as aclidinium. Use aclidinium; formoterol with caution in patients with pre-existing urinary retention, particularly those with existing prostatic hypertrophy or history of urinary tract obstruction. Instruct patients to seek immediate medical attention if signs and symptoms of urinary retention (e.g., difficulty passing urine, painful urination) occur.


Description

Aclidinium; formoterol is a combination of aclidinium, a respiratory long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA), and formoterol, a long-acting beta-2 agonist (LABA) indicated for the maintenance treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). COPD guidelines recommend initial therapy with a LABA plus LAMA combination for individuals in Group B and for many individuals in Group E, particularly in the absence of features suggesting likely benefit from ICS-containing therapy. Studies comparing dual bronchodilator therapy with long-acting bronchodilator monotherapy have shown that LABA plus LAMA combinations improve symptoms, lung function, and reduce COPD exacerbations more effectively than monotherapy in many patients. Aclidinium; formoterol is not indicated for the treatment of acute bronchospasm or asthma. Aclidinium; formoterol was FDA-approved in 2019.

Mechanism Of Action

Aclidinium is an antimuscarinic anticholinergic agent. Formoterol is a long-acting, selective beta-2 agonist (LABA).
Aclidinium: Aclidinium is a respiratory antimuscarinic or long-acting antimuscarinic antagonist (LAMA), which is often referred to as an anticholinergic. It has similar affinity to the subtypes of muscarinic receptors M1 to M5. Bronchodilation occurs through aclidinium's inhibition of the M3 receptor in the smooth muscle of the airways. The competitive and reversible nature of antagonism was exhibited with human and animal origin receptors and isolated organ preparations. Prevention of acetylcholine-induced bronchoconstriction was shown to be dose-dependent in preclinical in vitro and in vivo studies. The effect lasted longer than 24 hours. The clinical relevance of these findings is unknown. After inhalation of aclidinium, bronchodilation is predominantly a site-specific effect.
Formoterol: Formoterol is a long-acting agonist at beta-2 receptors. These receptors are present in large numbers in the lungs and are located on bronchiolar smooth muscle. Stimulation of beta-2 receptors in the lung causes relaxation of bronchial smooth muscle, which produces bronchodilation and a resultant increase in bronchial airflow. These effects are believed to be mediated, in part, by increased activity of adenyl cyclase, an intracellular enzyme responsible for the formation of cyclic-3',5'-adenosine monophosphate (cAMP). Formoterol has more than a 200-fold greater agonist activity at beta-2 receptors (primarily in the lung) than at beta-1 receptors (primarily in the heart). However, 10% to 50% of the beta receptors in the heart are beta-2 receptors. Even highly selective beta-2 receptor agonists may have adverse cardiovascular effects, such as tachycardia, palpitations, and ischemia. Other common adverse effects due to activation of beta-receptors include skeletal muscle tremors and cramps, insomnia, decreases in serum potassium, and increases in blood glucose. As with other beta-2 agonists, formoterol may possess antiinflammatory activity, but the clinical significance of this effect is unknown.


Pharmacokinetics

Aclidinium; formoterol is administered by oral inhalation.
Aclidinium: The volume of distribution after 400 mcg IV of aclidinium is approximately 300 L. The major route of metabolism is hydrolysis, which occurs both chemically and enzymatically by esterases. Aclidinium is rapidly and extensively hydrolyzed to its alcohol and dithienylglycolic acid derivatives, neither of which binds to muscarinic receptors and are devoid of pharmacologic activity. After an IV dose of aclidinium in young, healthy volunteers with an inter-individual variability of 36%, the total clearance was approximately 170 L/hour. Radiolabelled aclidinium was administered intravenously to healthy volunteers and was extensively metabolized with 1% excreted as unchanged aclidinium. Approximately 54% to 65% of the radioactivity was excreted in urine, and 20% to 33% of the dose was excreted in feces. Almost the entire dose was eliminated by hydrolysis. After dry powder inhalation, urinary excretion of aclidinium is about 0.09% of the dose, and the estimated effective half-life is approximately 12 hours.
Formoterol: Most formoterol seen in the bloodstream after oral inhalation is due to the drug being swallowed and absorbed from the GI tract. Some accumulation in plasma occurs with multiple doses. Plasma protein binding for the RR and SS enantiomers of formoterol is 46% and 58%, respectively. Formoterol is extensively metabolized in the liver by direct glucuronidation and O-demethylation followed by glucuronide conjugation. Four cytochrome P450 isoenzymes (CYP2D6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, and CYP2A6) are involved in the O-demethylation of formoterol. Formoterol has not been shown to inhibit CYP450 isoenzymes. About 62% of a dose is eliminated in the urine and 24% in the feces over a period of 104 hours. In the urine, roughly 10% of a dose is excreted unchanged, and roughly 15% is eliminated as the direct glucuronide conjugate. The mean terminal elimination half-life of formoterol is roughly 10 hours.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes: None
Due to the low plasma concentrations achieved at the clinically relevant doses, aclidinium and its metabolites are not expected to alter the disposition of drugs metabolized by the human CYP450 enzyme system. In addition, in vitro studies using human liver microsomes indicated that aclidinium and its major metabolites do not inhibit CYP450, 1A2, 2A6, 2B6, 2C8, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6, 2E1, 3A4/5, or 4A9/11 at concentrations up to 1,000-fold higher than the maximum plasma concentration that would be expected to be achieved at the therapeutic dose. Therefore, it is unlikely that aclidinium causes CYP450 related drug interactions. Four cytochrome P450 isoenzymes (CYP2D6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, and CYP2A6) are involved in the O-demethylation of formoterol. Formoterol has not been shown to inhibit CYP450 isoenzymes.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Inhalation Route


Aclidinium: After twice-daily oral inhalation administration of aclidinium; formoterol, the mean maximum aclidinium concentration of 128 pg/mL occurred within 5 minutes after inhalation. Steady state was achieved within 5 days.
Formoterol: After twice-daily oral inhalation administration of aclidinium; formoterol, the mean maximum formoterol concentration of 17 pg/mL occurred within 5 minutes after inhalation. Steady state was achieved within 5 days.


Hepatic Impairment

The effects of hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of aclidinium bromide were not studied. However, hepatic insufficiency is not expected to have relevant influence on the pharmacokinetics of aclidinium, since it is predominantly metabolized by chemical and enzymatic hydrolysis to products that do not bind to muscarinic receptors. Specific data with formoterol is not available, but because formoterol is primarily eliminated via hepatic metabolism, increased exposure can be expected in patients with severe hepatic impairment.

Renal Impairment

The impact of renal disease upon the pharmacokinetics of aclidinium was studied in 18 subjects with mild, moderate, or severe renal impairment. Systemic exposure (AUC and Cmax) to aclidinium and its main metabolites after single doses of 400 mcg aclidinium bromide was similar in renally impaired patients compared with 6 matched healthy control subjects. Renal excretion of unchanged formoterol is low.

Pediatrics

The pharmacokinetics of aclidinium and formoterol have not been evaluated in pediatric patients.

Geriatric

The pharmacokinetic profile of aclidinium and its main metabolites was assessed in 12 elderly COPD patients (ages 70 years or older) compared to a younger cohort of 12 COPD patients (40 to 59 years) that were administered 400 mcg aclidinium once daily for 3 days via inhalation. No clinically significant differences in systemic exposure (AUC and Cmax) were observed when the 2 groups were compared. The pharmacokinetics of formoterol have not specifically been studied in geriatric patients.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Inhalation Administration
Oral Inhalation Administration

Breath-actuated multi-dose dry powder inhaler (DPI) (i.e., Duaklir Pressair inhaler) 
Each actuation delivers 400 mcg of aclidinium bromide and 12 mcg of formoterol fumarate from the mouthpiece.
Prior to initial use, remove the inhaler from the sealed bag. The bag and desiccant can then be discarded.
The protective cap should be removed by lightly squeezing the arrows marked on each side of the cap and pulling straight off. Ensure that nothing is blocking the mouthpiece.
Instruct the patient to hold the inhaler with the mouthpiece facing them, but not inside their mouth. The orange button should be on top.
Before placing the inhaler into their mouth, they should press the orange button all the way down and then release it; they should not continue to hold it down. Once the orange button is pressed, the control window will change from red to green, indicating that the medication is ready for inhalation. If the control window remains red, repeat the press and release actions until the control window is green.
Before inhaling the dose, have the patient breathe out completely away from the inhaler; they should never breathe out into the inhaler.
Instruct the patient to put their lips tightly around the mouthpiece and to breathe in through the mouth quickly and deeply until a "click" sound is heard; this lets the patient know that they have inhaled the full dose. It is important that the patient does NOT hold down the orange button while they are breathing in the dose.
The patient should remove the inhaler from their mouth and hold their breath for as long as is comfortable, then breathe out slowly through their nose.
Although some patients may taste the medication during their inhalation, they should not take an extra dose if they do not taste anything after inhaling.
The control window should turn red after the full dose has been inhaled. If it remains green after the dose is inhaled, the inhalation process should be repeated. If correct inhalation has not been achieved after several attempts, the doctor or healthcare professional should be contacted.
Once the window has turned red, the protective cap should be placed back onto the inhaler by pressing it back onto the mouthpiece.
The dose indicator displays how many doses are left. The first time the inhaler is used, the indicator will display the number 60. The indicator number will count down as the patient uses the inhaler; the indicator moves slowly, displaying intervals of 10 (60, 50, 40, 30, 20, 10, 0). As the patient is nearing their last dose, a red band begins to appear to warn that a new aclidinium; formoterol inhaler is needed.
The inhaler should be discarded after one of the following occurs: the marking "0" with a red background shows in the middle of the dose indicator, the device locks out, or 2 months after the inhaler is removed from the sealed bag, whichever comes first.
The inhaler does not need to be cleaned; the mouthpiece can be wiped with a dry tissue or paper towel. Water should never be used as it may damage the inhaler.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

800 mcg/day of aclidinium and 24 mcg/day of formoterol via oral inhalation (i.e., 1 inhalation twice daily).

Geriatric

800 mcg/day of aclidinium and 24 mcg/day of formoterol via oral inhalation (i.e., 1 inhalation twice daily).

Adolescents

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Children

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Not indicated.

Neonates

Not indicated.

Dosage Forms

DUAKLIR PRESSAIR 400mcg-12mcg/actuation Powder for Inhalation

Duaklir Pressair 400mcg-12mcg/actuation Powder for Inhalation

Duaklir Pressair 400mcg-12mcg/actuation Powder for Inhalation

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Specific information regarding the need for aclidinium; formoterol dosage adjustment is not available; aclidinium; formoterol has not been studied in patients with hepatic impairment.

Renal Impairment

Aclidinium; formoterol has not been formally studied in patients with renal impairment; no dosage adjustment guidelines are available.

© 2026 Elsevier