=== Ertugliflozin (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5002)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Ertugliflozin is an oral sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 (SGLT2) inhibitor indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM).

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 15 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): acute kidney injury, dehydration, diuresis, hypotension, hypovolemia, orthostatic hypotension, renal failure, syncope, balanitis, candidiasis, cystitis, dysuria, increased urinary frequency, infection, nocturia, phimosis, polyuria, urinary urgency, vaginitis, back pain, headache, pharyngitis, polydipsia, weight loss

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Withhold ertugliflozin, if possible, in temporary clinical situations that could predispose patients to ketoacidosis such as underinsulinization due to insulin dose reduction or missed...

Brand Names
  - Steglatro

Dosage Forms
  - Segluromet 2.5mg-1000mg Tablet
  - SEGLUROMET 2.5mg-1000mg Tablet
  - SEGLUROMET 2.5mg-500mg Tablet
  - Segluromet 7.5mg-1000mg Tablet
  - Segluromet 7.5mg-1000mg Tablet
  - Segluromet 7.5mg-500mg Tablet
  - Steglatro 15mg Tablet
  - Steglatro 15mg Tablet
  - STEGLATRO 5mg Tablet
  - Steglatro 5mg Tablet
  - Steglujan 15mg-100mg Tablet
  - STEGLUJAN 5mg-100mg Tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        5 mg PO once daily, initially. May increase dose to 15 mg PO once daily if needed.
    Heading
    For the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus as an adjunct to diet and exercise

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    alcohol use disorder, fever, hypovolemia, ketogenic diet, pancreatitis, surgery
    General Information
    Withhold ertugliflozin, if possible, in temporary clinical situations that could predispose patients to ketoacidosis such as underinsulinization due to insulin dose reduction or missed insulin doses, acute fever, reduced caloric intake, ketogenic diet, surgery, hypovolemia, alcohol use disorder, and pancreatitis. For patients who undergo scheduled surgery, ertugliflozin should be temporarily discontinued at least 4 days before surgery. Resume ertugliflozin when the patient is clinically stable and has resumed oral intake. Reports of ketoacidosis, a serious, life-threatening condition requiring urgent hospitalization, have been identified in postmarketing surveillance in people with type 1 and type 2 diabetes mellitus receiving sodium glucose co-transporter-2 (SGLT2) inhibitors, including ertugliflozin. Fatal cases of ketoacidosis have been reported. The risk of ketoacidosis may be greater with higher SGLT2 doses. Consider ketone monitoring in people at risk for ketoacidosis if indicated by the clinical situation.
    Headline
    Treatment-Related Restrictions of Use
    General Information
    Ertugliflozin is not recommended for use to improve glycemic control in people with type 1 diabetes mellitus and should not be used for the treatment of diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA). Ertugliflozin significantly increases the risk of DKA in people with type 1 diabetes mellitus.
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    Before the initiation of ertugliflozin and as clinically indicated, obtain an estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) to assess renal function. Correct volume depletion before ertugliflozin therapy. Use of ertugliflozin is not recommended for glycemic control in those people with moderate to severe renal impairment (eGFR less than 45 mL/minute/1.73 m2), including renal failure. Ertugliflozin increases serum creatinine and decreases eGFR within weeks of starting therapy and then these changes stabilize; patients with hypovolemia and older adults more than 65 years of age may be more susceptible to these changes. Acute hemodynamic changes may play a role in the early renal function changes observed with ertugliflozin since they are reversed after treatment discontinuation. According to guidelines, randomized clinical outcome trials of advanced kidney disease or high cardiovascular disease risk with normal kidney function have not shown that SGLT2 inhibitors promote acute kidney injury. Despite these findings, the manufacturer recommends that before initiating ertugliflozin, consider factors that may predispose individuals to acute kidney injury including hypovolemia, chronic renal insufficiency, congestive heart failure, older age, pre-existing renal disease, and concomitant medications (e.g., diuretics, ACE inhibitors, ARBs, NSAIDs). Consider temporarily discontinuing ertugliflozin in any setting of reduced oral intake (such as acute illness or fasting) or fluid loss (such as gastrointestinal illness or excessive heat exposure); monitor patients for signs and symptoms of acute kidney injury. If acute kidney injury occurs, discontinue ertugliflozin promptly and institute treatment.
    Headline
    diabetic foot ulcer, lower limb amputation, peripheral neuropathy, peripheral vascular disease
    General Information
    Ertugliflozin is associated with an increased risk of lower limb amputation. Lower limb infections, gangrene, diabetic foot ulcer, and ischemia were the most common precipitating medical events leading to an amputation. The risk of amputation was highest in patients with a baseline history of prior amputation, peripheral vascular disease, or peripheral neuropathy. Monitor ertugliflozin recipients for infection (including osteomyelitis) of the legs and feet, and instruct them to notify their care team immediately if they notice any new pain or tenderness, unusual sensations, skin color changes, sores or ulcers, or infection in their legs or feet. Daily self-examination of their feet is recommended, and a health care professional should routinely perform a complete foot exam.
    Headline
    Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure
    General Information
    The use of ertugliflozin is not recommended in people with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C), including hepatic failure, due to lack of data in these patients. In people with mild (Child-Pugh class A) or moderate (Child-Pugh class B) hepatic impairment, no dosage adjustments are necessary.
    Headline
    geriatric
    General Information
    The Beers Criteria states that SGLT2 inhibitors should be used with caution in geriatric adults; monitor for urogenital infections and ketoacidosis. Older adults may be at increased risk of urogenital infections, particularly women in the first month of treatment. An increased risk of euglycemic diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) has also been seen in older adults. Geriatric adults receiving ertugliflozin experienced a higher incidence of adverse reactions related to volume depletion (e.g., hypotension, postural dizziness, orthostatic hypotension, syncope, and dehydration) compared with placebo recipients during clinical trials for type 2 diabetes mellitus. In the VERTIS CV trial, safety and efficacy were generally similar for geriatric and younger adults.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no adequate and well-controlled studies of ertugliflozin during human pregnancy to determine a drug-associated risk of adverse developmental outcomes. However, based on animal data showing adverse renal effects, ertugliflozin is not recommended during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy. In animal studies, doses approximately 13 times the maximum clinical dose caused renal pelvic and tubule dilatations and renal mineralization during periods of renal development that correspond to the late second and third trimester that were not fully reversible. There was no evidence of fetal harm in rats or rabbits at exposures approximately 300 times higher than the maximum clinical dose of 15 mg/day when administered during organogenesis. Poorly controlled diabetes during pregnancy also increases fetal risk. The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) and the American Diabetes Association (ADA) continue to recommend human insulin as the standard of care in pregnant individuals with diabetes mellitus and gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) requiring medical therapy; insulin does not cross the placenta.
    Headline
    genitourinary tract infection
    General Information
    People with a history of chronic or recurrent genitourinary tract infection are more likely to develop genitourinary infections when using ertugliflozin or other sodium-glucose cotransporter-2 (SGLT2) inhibitors. Monitor treated individuals for signs and symptoms of genitourinary infections (e.g., urinary tract infection, genital mycotic infection), and treat promptly, if indicated. Serious genitourinary infections, including urosepsis, pyelonephritis, and necrotizing fasciitis of the perineum (Fournier's gangrene), have occurred in individuals receiving SGLT-2 inhibitors. Some cases have resulted in hospitalization, multiple surgical procedures, or death. If Fournier's gangrene is suspected, discontinue the SGLT-2 inhibitor and promptly institute appropriate medical and/or surgical intervention.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Avoid ertugliflozin while breast-feeding due to the potential for serious adverse reactions in the breastfed infant. There are no data available regarding the presence of ertugliflozin in human milk, the effects on breastfed infants, or the effects on milk production. However, since ertugliflozin is present in the milk of lactating rats and human kidney maturation occurs in utero and during the first 2 years of life when lactational exposure may occur, there may be risk to the developing human kidney. If ertugliflozin is discontinued and blood glucose is not controlled on diet and exercise alone, insulin therapy should be considered. Other oral hypoglycemics may be considered. Metformin monotherapy may be appropriate for some person as available studies indicate low excretion in milk and that maternal use during breast-feeding is not expected to result in side effects to a healthy breastfed infant. Some experts recommend using metformin with caution if the person is breastfeeding a newborn or a premature neonate with reduced renal function. Because acarbose has limited systemic absorption, which results in minimal maternal plasma concentrations, clinically significant exposure via breast milk is not expected; therefore, this agent may be an alternative if postprandial glucose control is needed. Glyburide may be a suitable alternative since it was not detected in the breast milk of lactating women who received single and multiple doses of glyburide. If any oral hypoglycemics are used during breast-feeding, the breastfed infant should be monitored for signs of hypoglycemia, such as increased fussiness or somnolence.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no adequate and well-controlled studies of ertugliflozin during human pregnancy to determine a drug-associated risk of adverse developmental outcomes. However, based on animal data showing adverse renal effects, ertugliflozin is not recommended during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy. In animal studies, doses approximately 13 times the maximum clinical dose caused renal pelvic and tubule dilatations and renal mineralization during periods of renal development that correspond to the late second and third trimester that were not fully reversible. There was no evidence of fetal harm in rats or rabbits at exposures approximately 300 times higher than the maximum clinical dose of 15 mg/day when administered during organogenesis. Poorly controlled diabetes during pregnancy also increases fetal risk. The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) and the American Diabetes Association (ADA) continue to recommend human insulin as the standard of care in pregnant individuals with diabetes mellitus and gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) requiring medical therapy; insulin does not cross the placenta.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Avoid ertugliflozin while breast-feeding due to the potential for serious adverse reactions in the breastfed infant. There are no data available regarding the presence of ertugliflozin in human milk, the effects on breastfed infants, or the effects on milk production. However, since ertugliflozin is present in the milk of lactating rats and human kidney maturation occurs in utero and during the first 2 years of life when lactational exposure may occur, there may be risk to the developing human kidney. If ertugliflozin is discontinued and blood glucose is not controlled on diet and exercise alone, insulin therapy should be considered. Other oral hypoglycemics may be considered. Metformin monotherapy may be appropriate for some person as available studies indicate low excretion in milk and that maternal use during breast-feeding is not expected to result in side effects to a healthy breastfed infant. Some experts recommend using metformin with caution if the person is breastfeeding a newborn or a premature neonate with reduced renal function. Because acarbose has limited systemic absorption, which results in minimal maternal plasma concentrations, clinically significant exposure via breast milk is not expected; therefore, this agent may be an alternative if postprandial glucose control is needed. Glyburide may be a suitable alternative since it was not detected in the breast milk of lactating women who received single and multiple doses of glyburide. If any oral hypoglycemics are used during breast-feeding, the breastfed infant should be monitored for signs of hypoglycemia, such as increased fussiness or somnolence.

Interactions
Acebutolol: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Acetaminophen; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Acetaminophen; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Acetaminophen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
acetaZOLAMIDE: (Minor) Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors may alter blood sugar. Both hyperglycemia and hypoglycemia have been described in patients treated with acetazolamide. This should be taken into consideration in patients with impaired glucose tolerance or diabetes mellitus who are receiving antidiabetic agents. Monitor blood glucose and for changes in glycemic control and be alert for evidence of an interaction.
Albuterol; Budesonide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and SGLT2 inhibitor use; a SGLT2 inhibitor dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Amphetamine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Androgens: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Angiotensin II receptor antagonists: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and SGLT2 inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Asenapine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and SGLT2 inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Atenolol: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
atypical antipsychotic: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and SGLT2 inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Azelastine; Fluticasone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and SGLT2 inhibitor use; a SGLT2 inhibitor dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Azilsartan: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Beclomethasone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and SGLT2 inhibitor use; a SGLT2 inhibitor dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Benazepril: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Benzphetamine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Beta-blockers: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Betamethasone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and SGLT2 inhibitor use; a SGLT2 inhibitor dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Betaxolol: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Bisoprolol: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Bortezomib: (Moderate) During clinical trials of bortezomib, hypoglycemia and hyperglycemia were reported in diabetic patients receiving antidiabetic agents. Patients taking antidiabetic agents and receiving bortezomib treatment may require close monitoring of their blood glucose levels and dosage adjustment of their medication.
Brexpiprazole: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and SGLT2 inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Budesonide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and SGLT2 inhibitor use; a SGLT2 inhibitor dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and SGLT2 inhibitor use; a SGLT2 inhibitor dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and SGLT2 inhibitor use; a SGLT2 inhibitor dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Candesartan: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Captopril: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors: (Minor) Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors may alter blood sugar. Both hyperglycemia and hypoglycemia have been described in patients treated with acetazolamide. This should be taken into consideration in patients with impaired glucose tolerance or diabetes mellitus who are receiving antidiabetic agents. Monitor blood glucose and for changes in glycemic control and be alert for evidence of an interaction.
Cariprazine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and SGLT2 inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Carteolol: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Chloroquine: (Major) Careful monitoring of blood glucose is recommended when chloroquine and antidiabetic agents, including the SGLT2 inhibitors, are coadministered. A decreased dose of the antidiabetic agent may be necessary as severe hypoglycemia has been reported in patients treated concomitantly with chloroquine and an antidiabetic agent.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
chlorproMAZINE: (Minor) Phenothiazines, especially chlorpromazine, may increase blood glucose concentrations. Hyperglycemia and glycosuria have been reported. Patients who are taking antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for worsening glycemic control when any of these antipsychotics is instituted.
Chromium: (Moderate) Chromium dietary supplements may lower blood glucose. As part of the glucose tolerance factor molecule, chromium appears to facilitate the binding of insulin to insulin receptors in tissues and to aid in glucose metabolism. Because blood glucose may be lowered by the use of chromium, patients who are on antidiabetic agents may need dose adjustments. Close monitoring of blood glucose is recommended.
Ciclesonide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and SGLT2 inhibitor use; a SGLT2 inhibitor dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Ciprofloxacin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and quinolone use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
cloNIDine: (Minor) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when clonidine is given with antidiabetic agents. Since clonidine inhibits the release of catecholamines, clonidine may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Clonidine does not appear to impair recovery from hypoglycemia, and has not been found to impair glucose tolerance in diabetic patients.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and SGLT2 inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Minor) Phenothiazines, especially chlorpromazine, may increase blood glucose concentrations. Hyperglycemia and glycosuria have been reported. Patients who are taking antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for worsening glycemic control when any of these antipsychotics is instituted.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Minor) Phenothiazines, especially chlorpromazine, may increase blood glucose concentrations. Hyperglycemia and glycosuria have been reported. Patients who are taking antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for worsening glycemic control when any of these antipsychotics is instituted.
Conjugated Estrogens: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis.
Conjugated Estrogens; Bazedoxifene: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis.
Conjugated Estrogens; medroxyPROGESTERone: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis. (Minor) Progestins can impair glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for signs indicating changes in diabetic control when therapy with progestins is instituted or discontinued.
Corticosteroids: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and SGLT2 inhibitor use; a SGLT2 inhibitor dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Cortisone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and SGLT2 inhibitor use; a SGLT2 inhibitor dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Danazol: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Deflazacort: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and SGLT2 inhibitor use; a SGLT2 inhibitor dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Delafloxacin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and quinolone use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Desloratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis. (Minor) Progestins can impair glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for signs indicating changes in diabetic control when therapy with progestins is instituted or discontinued.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis. (Minor) Progestins can impair glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for signs indicating changes in diabetic control when therapy with progestins is instituted or discontinued.
dexAMETHasone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and SGLT2 inhibitor use; a SGLT2 inhibitor dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Dienogest; Estradiol valerate: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis. (Minor) Progestins can impair glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for signs indicating changes in diabetic control when therapy with progestins is instituted or discontinued.
Diethylpropion: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
DOBUTamine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
DOPamine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Doxapram: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Drospirenone: (Minor) Progestins can impair glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for signs indicating changes in diabetic control when therapy with progestins is instituted or discontinued.
Drospirenone; Estetrol: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis. (Minor) Progestins can impair glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for signs indicating changes in diabetic control when therapy with progestins is instituted or discontinued.
Drospirenone; Estradiol: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis. (Minor) Progestins can impair glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for signs indicating changes in diabetic control when therapy with progestins is instituted or discontinued.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis. (Minor) Progestins can impair glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for signs indicating changes in diabetic control when therapy with progestins is instituted or discontinued.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis. (Minor) Progestins can impair glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for signs indicating changes in diabetic control when therapy with progestins is instituted or discontinued.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis. (Minor) Progestins can impair glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for signs indicating changes in diabetic control when therapy with progestins is instituted or discontinued.
Enalapril, Enalaprilat: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
ePHEDrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
ePHEDrine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Esmolol: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Esterified Estrogens: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis.
Esterified Estrogens; methylTESTOSTERone: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together. (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis.
Estradiol: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis.
Estradiol; Levonorgestrel: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis. (Minor) Progestins can impair glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for signs indicating changes in diabetic control when therapy with progestins is instituted or discontinued.
Estradiol; Norethindrone: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis. (Minor) Progestins can impair glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for signs indicating changes in diabetic control when therapy with progestins is instituted or discontinued.
Estradiol; Norgestimate: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis. (Minor) Progestins can impair glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for signs indicating changes in diabetic control when therapy with progestins is instituted or discontinued.
Estradiol; Progesterone: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis. (Minor) Progestins can impair glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for signs indicating changes in diabetic control when therapy with progestins is instituted or discontinued.
Estrogens: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis. (Minor) Progestins can impair glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for signs indicating changes in diabetic control when therapy with progestins is instituted or discontinued.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis. (Minor) Progestins can impair glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for signs indicating changes in diabetic control when therapy with progestins is instituted or discontinued.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis. (Minor) Progestins can impair glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for signs indicating changes in diabetic control when therapy with progestins is instituted or discontinued.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis. (Minor) Progestins can impair glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for signs indicating changes in diabetic control when therapy with progestins is instituted or discontinued.
Etonogestrel: (Minor) Progestins can impair glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for signs indicating changes in diabetic control when therapy with progestins is instituted or discontinued.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis. (Minor) Progestins can impair glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for signs indicating changes in diabetic control when therapy with progestins is instituted or discontinued.
Fexofenadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Fludrocortisone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and SGLT2 inhibitor use; a SGLT2 inhibitor dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Flunisolide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and SGLT2 inhibitor use; a SGLT2 inhibitor dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and fluoxetine use; a SGLT2 inhibitor dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
fluPHENAZine: (Minor) Phenothiazines, especially chlorpromazine, may increase blood glucose concentrations. Hyperglycemia and glycosuria have been reported. Patients who are taking antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for worsening glycemic control when any of these antipsychotics is instituted.
Fluticasone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and SGLT2 inhibitor use; a SGLT2 inhibitor dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Fluticasone; Salmeterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and SGLT2 inhibitor use; a SGLT2 inhibitor dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Fluticasone; Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and SGLT2 inhibitor use; a SGLT2 inhibitor dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Fluticasone; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and SGLT2 inhibitor use; a SGLT2 inhibitor dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Formoterol; Mometasone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and SGLT2 inhibitor use; a SGLT2 inhibitor dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Fosinopril: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Garlic, Allium sativum: (Moderate) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should use dietary supplements of Garlic, Allium sativum with caution. Constituents in garlic might have some antidiabetic activity, and may increase serum insulin levels and increase glycogen storage in the liver. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control. Patients with diabetes should inform their health care professionals of their intent to ingest garlic dietary supplements. Some patients may require adjustment to their hypoglycemic medications over time. One study stated that additional garlic supplementation (0.05 to 1.5 grams PO per day) contributed to improved blood glucose control in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus within 1 to 2 weeks, and had positive effects on total cholesterol and high/low density lipoprotein regulation over time. It is unclear if hemoglobin A1C is improved or if improvements are sustained with continued treatment beyond 24 weeks. Other reviews suggest that garlic may provide modest improvements in blood lipids, but few studies demonstrate decreases in blood glucose in diabetic and non-diabetic patients. More controlled trials are needed to discern if garlic has an effect on blood glucose in patients with diabetes. When garlic is used in foods or as a seasoning, or at doses of 50 mg/day or less, it is unlikely that blood glucose levels are affected to any clinically significant degree.
Gemifloxacin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and quinolone use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Hydrocortisone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and SGLT2 inhibitor use; a SGLT2 inhibitor dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Hydroxychloroquine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and hydroxychloroquine use; a SGLT2 inhibitor dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
HYDROXYprogesterone: (Minor) Progestins, like hydroxyprogesterone, can impair glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for signs indicating changes in diabetic control when therapy with progestins is instituted or discontinued.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Iloperidone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and SGLT2 inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Irbesartan: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Isocarboxazid: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant ertugliflozin and monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) use; an ertugliflozin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Isoproterenol: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Labetalol: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Landiolol: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Lanreotide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when lanreotide treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Lanreotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Patients treated with lanreotide may experience either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
Levobunolol: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
levoFLOXacin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and quinolone use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Levonorgestrel: (Minor) Progestins can impair glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for signs indicating changes in diabetic control when therapy with progestins is instituted or discontinued.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis. (Minor) Progestins can impair glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for signs indicating changes in diabetic control when therapy with progestins is instituted or discontinued.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis. (Minor) Progestins can impair glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for signs indicating changes in diabetic control when therapy with progestins is instituted or discontinued.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis. (Minor) Progestins can impair glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for signs indicating changes in diabetic control when therapy with progestins is instituted or discontinued.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Lisdexamfetamine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Lisinopril: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Lithium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 (SGLT2) inhibitors with lithium may decrease serum lithium concentrations. Monitor serum lithium concentration more frequently during SGLT2 inhibitor initiation and dosage changes.
Lonapegsomatropin: (Moderate) Patients with diabetes mellitus should be monitored closely during somatropin (recombinant rhGH) therapy. Antidiabetic drugs (e.g., insulin or oral agents) may require adjustment when somatropin therapy is instituted in these patients. Growth hormones, such as somatropin, may decrease insulin sensitivity, leading to glucose intolerance and loss of blood glucose control. Therefore, glucose levels should be monitored periodically in all patients treated with somatropin, especially in those with risk factors for diabetes mellitus.
Loratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Losartan: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Lumateperone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and SGLT2 inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Lurasidone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and SGLT2 inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Mafenide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and sulfonamide use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
medroxyPROGESTERone: (Minor) Progestins can impair glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for signs indicating changes in diabetic control when therapy with progestins is instituted or discontinued.
Methamphetamine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
methazolAMIDE: (Minor) Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors may alter blood sugar. Both hyperglycemia and hypoglycemia have been described in patients treated with acetazolamide. This should be taken into consideration in patients with impaired glucose tolerance or diabetes mellitus who are receiving antidiabetic agents. Monitor blood glucose and for changes in glycemic control and be alert for evidence of an interaction.
Methylphenidate: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
methylPREDNISolone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and SGLT2 inhibitor use; a SGLT2 inhibitor dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
methylTESTOSTERone: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Metoprolol: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Midodrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Moexipril: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Mometasone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and SGLT2 inhibitor use; a SGLT2 inhibitor dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant ertugliflozin and monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) use; an ertugliflozin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Moxifloxacin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and quinolone use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Nadolol: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Nebivolol: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Niacin, Niacinamide: (Moderate) Niacin (nicotinic acid) interferes with glucose metabolism and can result in hyperglycemia. Changes in glycemic control can usually be corrected through modification of hypoglycemic therapy. Monitor patients taking antidiabetic agents for changes in glycemic control if niacin (nicotinic acid) is added or deleted to the medication regimen. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Norepinephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis. (Minor) Progestins can impair glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for signs indicating changes in diabetic control when therapy with progestins is instituted or discontinued.
Norethindrone: (Minor) Progestins can impair glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for signs indicating changes in diabetic control when therapy with progestins is instituted or discontinued.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis. (Minor) Progestins can impair glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for signs indicating changes in diabetic control when therapy with progestins is instituted or discontinued.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis. (Minor) Progestins can impair glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for signs indicating changes in diabetic control when therapy with progestins is instituted or discontinued.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis. (Minor) Progestins can impair glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for signs indicating changes in diabetic control when therapy with progestins is instituted or discontinued.
Norgestrel: (Minor) Progestins can impair glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for signs indicating changes in diabetic control when therapy with progestins is instituted or discontinued.
Octreotide: (Moderate) Monitor patients receiving octreotide concomitantly with insulin or other antidiabetic agents for changes in glycemic control and adjust doses of these medications accordingly. Octreotide alters the balance between the counter-regulatory hormones of insulin, glucagon, and growth hormone, which may result in hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia. The hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia which occurs during octreotide acetate therapy is usually mild but may result in overt diabetes mellitus or necessitate dose changes in insulin or other hypoglycemic agents. In patients with concomitant type1 diabetes mellitus, octreotide is likely to affect glucose regulation, and insulin requirements may be reduced. Symptomatic hypoglycemia, which may be severe, has been reported in type 1 diabetic patients. In Type 2 diabetes patients with partially intact insulin reserves, octreotide administration may result in decreases in plasma insulin levels and hyperglycemia.
Ofloxacin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and quinolone use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and SGLT2 inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and SGLT2 inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and fluoxetine use; a SGLT2 inhibitor dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and SGLT2 inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Olmesartan: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Olopatadine; Mometasone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and SGLT2 inhibitor use; a SGLT2 inhibitor dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Orlistat: (Minor) Weight-loss may affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. In many patients, glycemic control may improve. A reduction in dose of oral hypoglycemic medications may be required in some patients taking orlistat. Monitor blood glucose and glycemic control and adjust therapy as clinically indicated.
Oxandrolone: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Paliperidone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and SGLT2 inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Pasireotide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when pasireotide treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Pasireotide inhibits the secretion of insulin and glucagon. Patients treated with pasireotide may experience either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
Pegvisomant: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose levels regularly in patients with diabetes, especially when pegvisomant treatment is initiated or when the dose is altered. Adjust treatment with antidiabetic agents as clinically indicated. Pegvisomant increases sensitivity to insulin by lowering the activity of growth hormone, and in some patients glucose tolerance improves with treatment. Patients with diabetes treated with pegvisomant and antidiabetic agents may be more likely to experience hypoglycemia.
Perindopril: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Perphenazine: (Minor) Phenothiazines, especially chlorpromazine, may increase blood glucose concentrations. Hyperglycemia and glycosuria have been reported. Patients who are taking antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for worsening glycemic control when any of these antipsychotics is instituted.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Minor) Phenothiazines, especially chlorpromazine, may increase blood glucose concentrations. Hyperglycemia and glycosuria have been reported. Patients who are taking antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for worsening glycemic control when any of these antipsychotics is instituted.
Phendimetrazine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Phenelzine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant ertugliflozin and monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) use; an ertugliflozin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Phenothiazines: (Minor) Phenothiazines, especially chlorpromazine, may increase blood glucose concentrations. Hyperglycemia and glycosuria have been reported. Patients who are taking antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for worsening glycemic control when any of these antipsychotics is instituted.
Phentermine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Pindolol: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Prasterone, Dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA (Dietary Supplements): (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Prasterone, Dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA (FDA-approved): (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
prednisoLONE: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and SGLT2 inhibitor use; a SGLT2 inhibitor dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
predniSONE: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and SGLT2 inhibitor use; a SGLT2 inhibitor dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Prochlorperazine: (Minor) Phenothiazines, especially chlorpromazine, may increase blood glucose concentrations. Hyperglycemia and glycosuria have been reported. Patients who are taking antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for worsening glycemic control when any of these antipsychotics is instituted.
Progesterone: (Minor) Progestins can impair glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for signs indicating changes in diabetic control when therapy with progestins is instituted or discontinued.
Progestins: (Minor) Progestins can impair glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for signs indicating changes in diabetic control when therapy with progestins is instituted or discontinued.
Promethazine: (Minor) Phenothiazines, especially chlorpromazine, may increase blood glucose concentrations. Hyperglycemia and glycosuria have been reported. Patients who are taking antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for worsening glycemic control when any of these antipsychotics is instituted.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Minor) Phenothiazines, especially chlorpromazine, may increase blood glucose concentrations. Hyperglycemia and glycosuria have been reported. Patients who are taking antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for worsening glycemic control when any of these antipsychotics is instituted.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Minor) Phenothiazines, especially chlorpromazine, may increase blood glucose concentrations. Hyperglycemia and glycosuria have been reported. Patients who are taking antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for worsening glycemic control when any of these antipsychotics is instituted.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
QUEtiapine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and SGLT2 inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Quinapril: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Quinolones: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and quinolone use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Racepinephrine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Ramipril: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis. (Minor) Progestins can impair glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for signs indicating changes in diabetic control when therapy with progestins is instituted or discontinued.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and SGLT2 inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.
Sacubitril; Valsartan: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be periodically monitored for changes in glycemic control when hormone therapy is instituted or discontinued. Estrogens can decrease the hypoglycemic effects of antidiabetic agents by impairing glucose tolerance. Changes in glucose tolerance occur more commonly in patients receiving 50 mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol (or equivalent) per day in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), which are not commonly used in practice since the marketing of lower dose COCs, patches, injections and rings. The presence or absence of a concomitant progestin may influence the significance of any hormonal effect on glucose homeostasis. (Minor) Progestins can impair glucose tolerance. Patients receiving antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for signs indicating changes in diabetic control when therapy with progestins is instituted or discontinued.
Serdexmethylphenidate; Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Somapacitan: (Moderate) Patients with diabetes mellitus should be monitored closely during somapacitan therapy. Antidiabetic drugs (e.g., insulin or oral agents) may require adjustment when somapacitan therapy is instituted in these patients. Growth hormones, such as somapacitan, may decrease insulin sensitivity, leading to glucose intolerance and loss of blood glucose control. Therefore, glucose levels should be monitored periodically in all patients treated with somapacitan, especially in those with risk factors for diabetes mellitus.
Somatrogon: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of glycemic control if concomitant use of somatrogon and antidiabetic drugs is necessary; a dose adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be needed. Growth hormones, such as somatrogon, may decrease insulin sensitivity, leading to glucose intolerance and loss of blood glucose control.
Somatropin, rh-GH: (Moderate) Patients with diabetes mellitus should be monitored closely during somatropin (recombinant rhGH) therapy. Antidiabetic drugs (e.g., insulin or oral agents) may require adjustment when somatropin therapy is instituted in these patients. Growth hormones, such as somatropin, may decrease insulin sensitivity, leading to glucose intolerance and loss of blood glucose control. Therefore, glucose levels should be monitored periodically in all patients treated with somatropin, especially in those with risk factors for diabetes mellitus.
Sotalol: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
sulfADIAZINE: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and sulfonamide use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Sulfamethoxazole; Trimethoprim, SMX-TMP, Cotrimoxazole: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and sulfonamide use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
sulfaSALAzine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and sulfonamide use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Sulfonamides: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and sulfonamide use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Sympathomimetics: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Telmisartan: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Testosterone: (Moderate) Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease antidiabetic agent dosage requirements. Monitor blood glucose and HbA1C when these drugs are used together.
Thioridazine: (Minor) Phenothiazines, especially chlorpromazine, may increase blood glucose concentrations. Hyperglycemia and glycosuria have been reported. Patients who are taking antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for worsening glycemic control when any of these antipsychotics is instituted.
Timolol: (Moderate) Increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required when a beta blocker is given with antidiabetic agents. Since beta blockers inhibit the release of catecholamines, these medications may hide symptoms of hypoglycemia such as tremor, tachycardia, and blood pressure changes. Other symptoms, like headache, dizziness, nervousness, mood changes, or hunger are not blunted. Beta-blockers also exert complex actions on the body's ability to regulate blood glucose. Some beta-blockers, particularly non-selective beta-blockers such as propranolol, have been noted to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and a delay in recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Hyperglycemia has been reported as well and is possibly due to beta-2 receptor blockade in the beta cells of the pancreas. A selective beta-blocker may be preferred in patients with diabetes mellitus, if appropriate for the patient's condition. Selective beta-blockers, such as atenolol or metoprolol, do not appear to potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia. While beta-blockers may have negative effects on glycemic control, they reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke in patients with diabetes and their use should not be avoided in patients with compelling indications for beta-blocker therapy when no other contraindications are present.
Trandolapril: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Tranylcypromine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant ertugliflozin and monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) use; an ertugliflozin dose adjustment may be necessary. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Triamcinolone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant corticosteroid and SGLT2 inhibitor use; a SGLT2 inhibitor dose adjustment may be necessary. Corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations. Risk factors for impaired glucose tolerance due to corticosteroids include the corticosteroid dose and duration of treatment. Corticosteroids stimulate hepatic glucose production and inhibit peripheral glucose uptake into muscle and fatty tissues, producing insulin resistance. Decreased insulin production may occur in the pancreas due to a direct effect on pancreatic beta cells.
Trifluoperazine: (Minor) Phenothiazines, especially chlorpromazine, may increase blood glucose concentrations. Hyperglycemia and glycosuria have been reported. Patients who are taking antidiabetic agents should be closely monitored for worsening glycemic control when any of these antipsychotics is instituted.
Valsartan: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant SGLT2 inhibitor and angiotensin receptor blocker use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Vitamin B Complex Supplements: (Moderate) Niacin (nicotinic acid) interferes with glucose metabolism and can result in hyperglycemia. Changes in glycemic control can usually be corrected through modification of hypoglycemic therapy. Monitor patients taking antidiabetic agents for changes in glycemic control if niacin (nicotinic acid) is added or deleted to the medication regimen. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Ziprasidone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant atypical antipsychotic and SGLT2 inhibitor use. Atypical antipsychotic therapy may aggravate diabetes mellitus. Atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes, including hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar, hyperglycemic states, and diabetic coma. Possible mechanisms include atypical antipsychotic-induced insulin resistance or direct beta-cell inhibition.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    hypoglycemia
    General Information
    Ertugliflozin can increase the risk of hypoglycemia when combined with insulin or an insulin secretagogue. In clinical trials of ertugliflozin monotherapy, hypoglycemia was reported in 2.6% of patients compared with 0.7% of placebo-treated patients; severe hypoglycemia occurred in 1.3% of patients receiving the 15 mg/day dose. When ertugliflozin or placebo was added to insulin, with or without insulin secretagogue therapy, the rates of major episodes of hyperglycemia were 2.1% to 3.4% in the ertugliflozin groups and 2.3% in the placebo group. The risk of hypoglycemia may be lowered by a reduction in the dose of insulin or sulfonylurea (or other concomitantly administered insulin secretagogues). Inform ertugliflozin recipients using these medications concomitantly of this risk and educate them on the signs and symptoms of hypoglycemia.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypoglycemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    acute kidney injury, dehydration, diuresis, hypotension, hypovolemia, orthostatic hypotension, renal failure, syncope
    General Information
    Ertugliflozin results in an osmotic diuresis, which may lead to reductions in intravascular volume (hypovolemia). Elderly adults (65 years or more) had the highest incidence of adverse reactions related to volume depletion (2.2% to 2.6% of ertugliflozin-treated subjects and 1.1% of comparator subjects) compared with younger subjects. In clinical studies in subjects with moderate renal impairment, side effects related to volume depletion (hypotension, orthostatic hypotension, dehydration, syncope) were reported in 1.9% to 4.4% of subjects receiving ertugliflozin vs. 0% of subjects receiving placebo. Subjects at an increased risk of developing hypotension with ertugliflozin are those at risk for dehydration or hypovolemia, subjects with renal impairment, older adults 75 years or more, subjects with low systolic blood pressure, and those taking diuretics. Volume status should be assessed and corrected before initiating ertugliflozin in people with 1 or more of these characteristics. Monitor for signs and symptoms after initiating therapy. Renal-related adverse reactions can occur after initiating ertugliflozin. Reports include increases in serum creatinine and decreases in eGFR within weeks of starting therapy and then these changes stabilize. In a study of subjects with moderate renal impairment, larger mean changes in renal function were observed. In a long-term cardiovascular outcomes trial, an initial increase in serum creatinine and a decrease in eGFR within weeks of starting therapy was observed (at Week 6 eGFR changes of -2.7, -3.8, and -0.4 mL/minute/1.73 m2 in the ertugliflozin 5 mg, ertugliflozin 15 mg and placebo arms, respectively). The initial decline was followed by a recovery toward baseline to Week 52 (eGFR change from baseline of -0.4, -1.1 and -0.2 mL/minute/1.73 m2 in ertugliflozin 5 mg, ertugliflozin 15 mg, and placebo arms, respectively). Acute hemodynamic changes may play a role in the early renal function changes observed with ertugliflozin since they are reversed after treatment discontinuation. There have been postmarketing cases of acute kidney injury, some with renal failure requiring hospitalization and dialysis, in subjects receiving SGLT2 inhibitors; some reports included subjects less than 65 years. In approximately half of the reported cases, acute kidney injury occurred within 1 month of starting the drug, and most subjects improved after drug discontinuation. If acute kidney injury occurs, promptly discontinue ertugliflozin and treat the renal impairment. According to guidelines, randomized clinical outcome trials of advanced kidney disease or high cardiovascular disease risk with normal kidney function have not shown that SGLT2 inhibitors promote acute kidney injury. Despite these findings, the manufacturer recommends that before initiating ertugliflozin, consider risk factors that may predispose people to acute kidney injury before starting them on ertugliflozin, including hypovolemia; chronic renal insufficiency; congestive heart failure; and concomitant medications such as diuretics, angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs), and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Consider temporary discontinuation of ertugliflozin in any setting of reduced oral intake such as acute illness or fasting, or with fluid losses such as gastrointestinal illness or excessive heat exposure. Assess renal function in all individuals prior to initiation of ertugliflozin therapy and periodically thereafter; ertugliflozin is not recommended in people with eGFR less than 45 mL/minute/1.73 m2.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dehydration
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      syncope
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      renal failure
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hypovolemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      orthostatic hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      diuresis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      acute kidney injury
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    balanitis, candidiasis, cystitis, dysuria, increased urinary frequency, infection, nocturia, phimosis, polyuria, urinary urgency, vaginitis
    General Information
    Sodium-glucose co-transporter 2 (SGLT2) inhibitors are associated with an increased risk of serious urinary tract infection (UTI), including urosepsis and pyelonephritis. Nineteen cases reported to the FDA resulted in hospitalization; however, no deaths were reported. Four patients required admission to the intensive care unit, and two patients required hemodialysis to treat renal failure. The median time to onset was 45 days (range 2 to 270 days). Discontinuation of the SGLT2 inhibitor was reported in 15 cases. Details regarding whether or not there was a prior history of UTI was not available for most of the cases. Blood culture results indicated that E. coli was the isolated organism in 8 of the 19 reports; 11 cases contained no information about blood culture testing. There were no reports of fungal urosepsis. Details regarding the administered antibiotic agent, the course of antibiotic treatment, and evidence of relapse or recurrent infection were not provided in any of the cases. Cases of serious urinary tract infection (UTI) were also observed in patients treated with ertugliflozin in clinical trials. UTIs (e.g., cystitis, dysuria, streptococcal UTI, and urethritis), were reported in approximately 4% of ertugliflozin- and placebo-treated patients. In clinical studies, female and male genital mycotic infections and urinary tract infection (cystitis, etc.) were the most common adverse reactions associated with ertugliflozin. Patients with a history of genital mycotic infections were more likely to develop genital mycotic infections. Infections were more frequently reported in females than in males. Female genital mycotic infections (genital candidiasis, genital fungal infection, vaginal infection, vulvitis, vulvovaginal candidiasis, vulvovaginal fungal infection, and vulvovaginitis) occurred in 9.1% to 12.2% of patients receiving ertugliflozin compared with 3% of placebo-treated patients. Vaginitis was reported in 2.4% to 2.8% of patients receiving ertugliflozin compared with 0.4% of placebo-treated patients. Male genital mycotic infections (balanitis, candida, balanoposthitis, and fungal genital infection) occurred in 3.7% to 4.2% of patients receiving ertugliflozin vs. 0.4% of placebo-treated patients and occurred more commonly in uncircumcised males. Phimosis was reported in 8 of 1,729 (0.5%) ertugliflozin-treated patients, of which 4 required circumcision. In the VERTIS CV trial, urinary tract infections (e.g., urinary tract infection, cystitis, dysuria) occurred in 10.2%, 12.2% and 12% of patients treated with placebo, ertugliflozin 5 mg and ertugliflozin 15 mg, respectively. The incidences of serious urinary tract infections were 0.8%, 0.9% and 0.4% with placebo, ertugliflozin 5 mg and ertugliflozin 15 mg, respectively. Use ertugliflozin cautiously in patients with a history of UTI or genital fungal infection, including vaginitis or balanitis, and in uncircumcised males. Patients should be told to report any signs of genitourinary tract infection and seek medical attention if they experience symptoms such as a feeling of burning when urinating or the need to urinate often or right away, pain in the lower part of the stomach area or pelvis, fever, or blood in the urine. Monitor and if a gential or urinary tract infection is suspected, treat promptly if indicated. Increased urinary frequency (e.g., pollakiuria, polyuria, urinary urgency, increased urine output, nocturia) was also reported and occurred in 2.4% to 2.7% of patients receiving ertugliflozin compared with 1% of placebo-treated patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      balanitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      candidiasis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      cystitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      increased urinary frequency
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nocturia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      phimosis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      polyuria
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      urinary urgency
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      vaginitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dysuria
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hypercholesterolemia, hyperlipidemia
    General Information
    Hyperlipidemia can occur with ertugliflozin. In clinical trials, dose-related increases in LDL-cholesterol (LDL-C) were observed in patients treated with ertugliflozin. Mean percent changes from baseline to week 26 in LDL-C relative to placebo were 2.6% and 5.4% with ertugliflozin 5 mg and 15 mg, respectively. The range of baseline LDL-C was 96.6 to 97.7 mg/dL across treatment groups. Monitor LDL-C and treat hypercholesterolemia per existing standards of care after initiating ertugliflozin therapy.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypercholesterolemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hyperlipidemia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    back pain, headache, pharyngitis, polydipsia, weight loss
    General Information
    Generalized adverse reactions reported in clinical trials with ertugliflozin included naso-pharyngitis (2% to 2.5%) and back pain (1.7% to 2.5%). These were reported with a similar incidence to placebo-treated patients. Decreased weight (mild weight loss) was reported in 1.2% to 2.4% of ertugliflozin-treated patients. Headache was reported in 2.9% to 3.5% of patients receiving ertugliflozin and at rates higher than with placebo. Thirst (i.e., dry mouth, polydipsia, and dry throat) was reported in 1.4% to 2.7% of patients receiving ertugliflozin in clinical trials compared with 0.6% of placebo-treated patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      back pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pharyngitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      weight loss
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      polydipsia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hyperphosphatemia
    General Information
    Ertugliflozin can increase serum phosphorus (hyperphosphatemia). In placebo-controlled trials, mean changes (% changes) from baseline in serum phosphate were 0.21 mg/dL (6.8%) and 0.26 mg/dL (8.5%) with ertugliflozin 5 mg and 15 mg/day, respectively, compared with 0.04 mg/dL (1.9%) in placebo-treated patients. The range of mean baseline serum phosphate was 3.53 to 3.54 mg/dL across treatment groups. In clinical trials, increases in hemoglobin were also noted. Mean changes (% changes) from baseline to week 26 in hemoglobin were 0.46 gram/dL (3.5%) and 0.48 gram/dL (3.5%) with ertugliflozin 5 mg and 15 mg/day, respectively. The range of mean baseline hemoglobin was 13.9 to 14 gram/dL across treatment groups. At the end of treatment, 0.2% and 0.4% of patients receiving ertugliflozin 5 mg and 15 mg/day, respectively, had a hemoglobin more than 2 gram/dL and above the upper limit of normal (ULN), compared with 0% of placebo-treated patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperphosphatemia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    necrotizing fasciitis, tissue necrosis
    General Information
    Ertugliflozin and other sodium-glucose co-transporter 2 (SGLT2) inhibitors increase urinary glucose excretion and increase the risk of genitourinary infections including urinary tract infections and genital mycotic infections in both male and female subjects. Serious genitourinary infections, including urosepsis, pyelonephritis, and a rare, and life-threatening infection called necrotizing fasciitis (tissue necrosis) of the perineum, also referred to as Fournier's gangrene. Some cases have resulted in hospitalization, multiple surgical procedures, or death. Counsel individuals to promptly seek medical attention if they experience any symptoms of tenderness, erythema, or swelling in the genital or perineal area, fever, or malaise. If Fournier's gangrene is suspected, discontinue ertugliflozin and institute prompt treatment with antibiotics and surgical debridement, if appropriate. Closely monitor blood glucose levels, and provide appropriate alternative therapy for glycemic control.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      necrotizing fasciitis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      tissue necrosis
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    lower limb amputation, skin ulcer
    General Information
    Infection and lower limb amputation have been reported in association with some SGLT2 inhibitors, including ertugliflozin. In a long-term cardiovascular outcomes study of subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus and established cardiovascular disease, the occurrence of non-traumatic lower limb amputation was reported with event rates of 4.7, 5.7, and 6 events per 1,000 person-years in the placebo, ertugliflozin 5 mg, and ertugliflozin 15 mg treatment arms, respectively. Amputation of the toe and foot were most frequent (81 out of 109 subjects with lower limb amputations). Some subjects had multiple amputations, some involving both lower limbs. People with amputations were more likely to be male, have higher A1C (%) at baseline, have a history of peripheral arterial disease, amputation or peripheral revascularization procedure, diabetic foot ulcer, and to have been taking diuretics or insulin. Across 7 ertugliflozin clinical trials, non-traumatic lower limb amputations were reported in 1 (0.1%) subject in the comparator group, 3 (0.2%) subjects in the ertugliflozin 5 mg group, and 8 (0.5%) subjects in the ertugliflozin 15 mg group. Counsel recipients of ertugliflozin about the importance of routine preventative foot care. Monitor individuals for infection (osteomyelitis) of the legs and feet and instruct individuals to notify their healthcare professional immediately if they notice a new sore or skin ulcer, any new pain or tenderness, unusual sensations, skin color changes, or infection in their legs or feet, and institute appropriate treatment. The individual should self-examine their feet daily during routine preventative diabetes care, and a healthcare professional should routinely perform a complete foot exam.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      lower limb amputation
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      skin ulcer
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    diabetic ketoacidosis
    General Information
    Reports of ketoacidosis, a serious, life-threatening condition requiring urgent hospitalization have been identified in clinical trials and postmarketing surveillance in patients with type 1 and type 2 diabetes mellitus receiving sodium glucose co-transporter-2 (SGLT2) inhibitors, including ertugliflozin. In the VERTIS CV study, ketoacidosis was identified in 19 (0.3%) ertugliflozin-treated patients and in 2 (0.1%) placebo treated patients. In other clinical trials, ketoacidosis was reported in 3 of 3,409 (0.1%) of patients treated with ertugliflozin compared with 0% of comparator-treated patients. The risk of ketoacidosis may be greater with higher doses. Ertugliflozin significantly increases the risk of diabetic ketoacidosis in patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus. In many of the postmarketing reports, and particularly in patients with type 1 diabetes, the presence of ketoacidosis was not immediately recognized, and the institution of treatment was delayed because presenting blood glucose levels were below those typically expected for DKA (often less than 250 mg/dL). Signs and symptoms at presentation were consistent with dehydration and severe metabolic acidosis and included nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, generalized malaise, and shortness of breath. In some but not all cases, factors predisposing to ketoacidosis such as acute febrile illness, infection, reduced caloric intake, ketogenic diet, surgery, reduction in dose of exogenous insulin or discontinuation of exogenous insulin or insulin secretagogue, volume depletion, or alcohol abuse were identified. Before initiating ertugliflozin, consider factors in the patient history that may predispose to ketoacidosis including pancreatic insulin deficiency, caloric restriction, volume depletion, and alcohol abuse. Risk factors for ketoacidosis also include patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and pancreatic disorders such as, a history of pancreatitis, pancreatic insufficiency, or pancreatic surgery. Ketoacidosis and glucosuria may persist longer than typically expected. Urinary glucose excretion persists for 3 days after discontinuing ertugliflozin; however there have been postmarketing reports of ketoacidosis and glucosuria lasting greater than 6 days and some up to 2 weeks after discontinuation of SGLT2 inhibitors. Based on the clinical situation, consider ketone monitoring in persons with type 1 diabetes mellitus and in others at risk for ketoacidosis. Patients treated with ertugliflozin who present with signs and symptoms consistent with dehydration and severe metabolic acidosis should be assessed for ketoacidosis regardless of presenting blood glucose levels, as ketoacidosis may be present even if blood glucose levels are less than 250 mg/dL. If ketoacidosis is suspected, discontinue ertugliflozin, evaluate the patient, and institute prompt treatment. Treatment of ketoacidosis may require insulin, fluid and carbohydrate replacement. Monitor patients for resolution of ketoacidosis before restarting ertugliflozin. Withhold ertugliflozin, if possible, in temporary clinical situations that could predispose patients to ketoacidosis. For patients who undergo surgery or procedures associated with prolonged fasting, ertugliflozin should be temporarily withheld for at least 4 days before surgery or procedures if possible. Resume ertugliflozin when the patient is clinically stable and has resumed oral intake. Educate patients on the signs and symptoms of ketoacidosis and instruct patients to discontinue this product and seek medical attention immediately if signs and symptoms occur.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      diabetic ketoacidosis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    angioedema, rash
    General Information
    Hypersensitivity reactions, such as angioedema or rash, have occurred during postmarketing use of ertugliflozin.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    laboratory test interference
    General Information
    Urinary laboratory test interference has been reported with ertugliflozin. Monitoring of glycemic control with urine glucose tests and the 1,5 Anhydroglucitol assay (1,5-AG assay) is not recommended in patients receiving ertugliflozin. Use of urine glucose tests will result in positive urine glucose tests and measurements of 1,5-AG are unreliable. Use alternative methods to monitor glycemic control.

Description
  Text
  Ertugliflozin is an oral sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 (SGLT2) inhibitor indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). Ertugliflozin monotherapy reduced A1C by 0.8 to 1% during clinical trials. Ertugliflozin is not recommended for use in individuals with an eGFR less than 45 mL/minute/1.73 m2, as drug efficacy is reduced and the risk for renal-related adverse events may be increased. SGLT2 inhibitor therapy has been shown to reduce the incidence of heart failure (HF), and some SGLT2 inhibitors have reduced overall cardiovascular (CV) risk. First-line T2DM therapy depends on comorbidities, individual-centered treatment factors, and management needs. In adults with T2DM and established atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) or indicators of high ASCVD risk, a glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonist (GLP-1 RA) and/or SGLT2 inhibitor with proven CV benefit (e.g., canagliflozin, empagliflozin), should be initiated as a first-line therapy independent of A1C goal or other antihyperglycemic treatments, including metformin. In adults with T2DM and heart failure (HF), an SGLT2 inhibitor with proven benefit (e.g., canagliflozin, dapagliflozin, empagliflozin, and ertugliflozin) should be initiated as first-line therapy to reduce hospitalizations for HF. In adults with T2DM and chronic kidney disease (CKD), an SGLT2 inhibitor with primary evidence (e.g., canagliflozin, dapagliflozin, empagliflozin) of reducing CKD progression should be initiated as first-line therapy; however, the glycemic benefits of SGLT2 inhibitors are reduced at eGFR less than 45 mL/minute per 1.73 m2. In individuals with T2DM who do not have ASCVD/indicators of high-risk, HF, or CKD and who need to minimize hypoglycemia and/or promote weight loss, SGLT2 inhibitors are generally recommended as a second or third-line option as add-on to metformin therapy, as they have a high efficacy for glucose lowering and an intermediate efficacy for weight loss. Ertugliflozin was initially FDA approved in 2017.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Ertugliflozin is an inhibitor of sodium-glucose co-transporter 2 (SGLT2), the transporter responsible for reabsorbing most of the glucose filtered by the tubular lumen in the kidney. SGLT2 is expressed in the proximal renal tubules. By inhibiting SGLT2, ertugliflozin reduces reabsorption of filtered glucose and lowers the renal threshold for glucose (RTG), and thereby increases urinary glucose excretion, improving blood glucose control. Dose-dependent increases in the amount of glucose excreted in the urine were observed in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus following single- and multiple-dose administration of ertugliflozin. Dose-response modeling indicates that ertugliflozin 5 mg and 15 mg results in near maximum urinary glucose excretion (UGE); enhanced UGE is maintained after multiple doses. This UGE with ertugliflozin also results in increased urinary volume.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Following single-dose administration of 5 mg and 15 mg of ertugliflozin orally, peak plasma concentrations (Cmax) occur at 1 hour post-dose under fasted conditions. The Cmax and AUC values increase proportionally with increases in ertugliflozin dose. The absolute bioavailability of ertugliflozin following administration of a 15 mg dose is approximately 100%. Administration of ertugliflozin with a high-fat, high calorie meal decreases Cmax by 29% and prolongs the time to maximum concentration (Tmax) by 1 hour compared with the fasted state; however, the AUC is unaffected. These effects of food on ertugliflozin pharmacokinetics are not considered clinically significant and ertugliflozin may be administered with or without food.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    The exposure of ertugliflozin was not increased in patients with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class B). The AUC of ertugliflozin decreased by approximately 13% and the Cmax decreased by approximately 21% compared to patients with normal hepatic function; however, this decrease in exposure is not considered clinically significant. The plasma protein binding of ertugliflozin was also unaffected in patients with moderate hepatic impairment. There is no clinical experience with ertugliflozin in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class C) and use in this population is not recommended.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Following a single dose of ertugliflozin 15 mg to patients with mild, moderate, and severe renal impairment, the mean increase in AUC for ertugliflozin was 1.6-, 1,7-, and 1.6-fold, respectively, compared with patients with normal renal function. These increases were not considered clinically significant. The plasma protein binding of ertugliflozin was unaffected in patients with renal impairment. Use of ertugliflozin in patients with an eGFR less than 45 mL/minute/1.73 m2 is not recommended. The 24-hour urinary glucose excretion decreased with increasing severity of renal impairment. A 26-week placebo-controlled study of 313 patients with Stage 3 Chronic Kidney Disease (eGFR 30 to less than 60 mL/minute/1.73 m2) treated with ertugliflozin did not demonstrate improvement in glycemic control. In the VERTIS CV study, there were 1,370 patients (25%) with an eGFR 90 mL/minute/1.73 m2 or greater, 2,929 patients (53%) with an eGFR of 60 to less than 90 mL/minute/1.73 m2, 879 patients (16%) with an eGFR of 45 to less than 60 mL/minute/1.73 m2, and 299 patients (5%) with eGFR of 30 to less than 45 mL/minute/1.73 m2 treated with ertugliflozin. Similar effects on glycemic control at Week 18 were observed in patients treated with ertugliflozin in each eGFR subgroup and also in the overall patient population.
    Name
    Pediatrics
    Description
    Pharmacokinetic studies of ertugliflozin have not been performed in pediatric patients.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Age did not significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of ertugliflozin.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    Gender did not significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of ertugliflozin.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    Race did not significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of ertugliflozin.
    Name
    Obesity
    Description
    Weight, as assessed using body mass index (BMI), did not significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of ertugliflozin.
  Text
  Ertugliflozin is administered orally. The mean steady state volume of distribution of ertugliflozin following an intravenous dose is 85.5 L. Ertugliflozin is approximately 94% protein bound. Protein binding is independent of ertugliflozin plasma concentrations. The blood-to-plasma concentration ratio of ertugliflozin is 0.66. Ertugliflozin is mainly metabolized via O-glucuronidation by UGT1A9 and UGT2B7 to 2 glucuronides that are pharmacologically inactive at clinically relevant concentrations. CYP-mediated (oxidative) metabolism of ertugliflozin is minimal (12%). Following oral administration, approximately 50% and 41% of the dose is excreted in the urine and feces, respectively. In the urine, only 1.5% of the dose is excreted as the parent drug. In the feces, approximately 34% of the dose is excreted as the parent drug. This is likely due to biliary excretion of glucuronides metabolites and subsequent hydrolysis to parent. The mean elimination half-life of ertugliflozin is approximately 17 hours. Steady state is reached after 4 to 6 days of once-daily dosing. Ertugliflozin does not exhibit time-dependent pharmacokinetics and accumulates in plasma up to 10% to 40% following multiple dosing.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 (CYP450) isoenzymes and drug transporters: None
Ertugliflozin and ertugliflozin glucuronides did not inhibit CYP1A2, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2C8, CYP2B6, CYP2D6, or CYP3A4, and did not induce CYP1A2, CYP2B6, or CYP3A4 based on in vitro studies. Ertugliflozin also did not inhibit UGT1A6, 1A9, or 2B7 and was a weak inhibitor of UGT1A1 and 1A4. Overall, ertugliflozin is unlikely to affect the pharmacokinetics of concurrently administered medications that are eliminated by these enzymes. Ertugliflozin is a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) drug transporters. Ertugliflozin and ertugliflozin glucuronides do not meaningful inhibit P-gp, OCT2, OAT1, OAT3 transporters, or OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 at clinically relevant concentrations. Overall, ertugliflozin is unlikely to affect the pharmacokinetics of concurrently administered medications that are substrates of these transporters.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Administer tablets once daily in the morning, with or without food.
Missed dose: If a dose is missed, instruct patients to take the dose as soon as possible. Advise patients not to double up the next dose.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    15 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    15 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Not indicated.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Not indicated.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  No dosage adjustment is necessary in patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment. Ertugliflozin has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment and is not recommended for use in these patients.
  Renal Impairment
  eGFR 45 mL/minute/1.73 m2 or more: No dosage adjustment needed.
eGFR less than 45 mL/minute/1.73 m2: Use is not recommended.
