=== Acoramidis — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 5575)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Acoramidis, a selective transthyretin stabilizer, is indicated for the treatment of cardiomyopathy of the wild-type or variant transthyretin-mediated amyloidosis (ATTR-CM) to reduce cardiovascular death and cardiovascular-related hospitalization in adults.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 1424 mg/day PO.

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: In animal reproductive studies involving rats and rabbits, no embryofetal abnormalities were observed at exposures up to 34 times and 13 times the clinical exposure at the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD), respectively. Report pregnancies to the BridgeBio reporting line at 1-844-550-2246.

ACORAMIDIS

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

ATTRUBY

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of wild type or variant transthyretin amyloid cardiomyopathy for the reduction of cardiovascular mortality and cardiovascular-related hospitalization

Oral dosage
Adults


712 mg PO twice daily.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

pregnancy


Available data on the use of acoramidis during pregnancy are insufficient to establish a medication associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. In animal reproductive studies involving rats and rabbits, no embryofetal abnormalities were observed at exposures up to 34 times and 13 times the clinical exposure at the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD), respectively. Report pregnancies to the BridgeBio reporting line at 1-844-550-2246.


Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

breast-feeding


Use acoramidis with caution during breast-feeding. Data on the presence of acoramidis in human milk, the effect on the breast-fed child, or its effect on milk production are unavailable.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Available data on the use of acoramidis during pregnancy are insufficient to establish a medication associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. In animal reproductive studies involving rats and rabbits, no embryofetal abnormalities were observed at exposures up to 34 times and 13 times the clinical exposure at the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD), respectively. Report pregnancies to the BridgeBio reporting line at 1-844-550-2246.


Interactions

Amobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of acoramidis and barbiturates due to the risk of decreased acoramidis exposure which may reduce its efficacy.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of acoramidis and apalutamide due to the risk of decreased acoramidis exposure which may reduce its efficacy.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of acoramidis and barbiturates due to the risk of decreased acoramidis exposure which may reduce its efficacy.
Barbiturates: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of acoramidis and barbiturates due to the risk of decreased acoramidis exposure which may reduce its efficacy.
Bosentan: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in bosentan-related adverse reactions if concomitant use of acoramidis is necessary. Concomitant use may increase bosentan exposure. Bosentan is a CYP2C9 substrate and acoramidis is a CYP2C9 inhibitor.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Moderate) Consider a meloxicam dose reduction and monitor for adverse reactions if coadministration with acoramidis is necessary. Concurrent use may increase meloxicam exposure. Meloxicam is a CYP2C9 substrate and acoramidis is a CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of acoramidis and barbiturates due to the risk of decreased acoramidis exposure which may reduce its efficacy.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of acoramidis and barbiturates due to the risk of decreased acoramidis exposure which may reduce its efficacy.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of acoramidis and barbiturates due to the risk of decreased acoramidis exposure which may reduce its efficacy.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of acoramidis and barbiturates due to the risk of decreased acoramidis exposure which may reduce its efficacy.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of acoramidis and carbamazepine due to the risk of decreased acoramidis exposure which may reduce its efficacy.
Diclofenac: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in diclofenac-related adverse effects if concomitant use with acoramidis is necessary; a diclofenac dosage decrease may be required based on response. Concomitant use may increase diclofenac exposure. Diclofenac is a CYP2C9 substrate and acoramidis is a CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in diclofenac-related adverse effects if concomitant use with acoramidis is necessary; a diclofenac dosage decrease may be required based on response. Concomitant use may increase diclofenac exposure. Diclofenac is a CYP2C9 substrate and acoramidis is a CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of acoramidis and encorafenib. Concurrent use may decrease acoramidis exposure which may reduce its efficacy.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of acoramidis and enzalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease acoramidis exposure which may reduce its efficacy.
Etravirine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of acoramidis and etravirine due to the risk of decreased acoramidis exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Acoramidis is a UGT substrate and etravirine is a UGT inducer.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of acoramidis and fexinidazole due to the risk of decreased acoramidis exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Acoramidis is a UGT substrate and fexinidazole is a UGT inducer.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of acoramidis and phenytoin/fosphenytoin due to the risk of decreased acoramidis exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Additionally, concomitant use may increase phenytoin exposure and the risk for phenytoin toxicity. Phenytoin is a CYP2C9 substrate and UGT inducer; acoramidis is a UGT substrate and CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lonafarnib and acoramidis; concurrent use may increase the exposure of lonafarnib and the risk of adverse effects. If coadministration is unavoidable, closely monitor patients for lonafarnib-related adverse reactions. Lonafarnib is a CYP2C9 substrate and acoramidis is a CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of acoramidis and ritonavir due to the risk of decreased acoramidis exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Acoramidis is a UGT substrate and ritonavir is a UGT inducer.
Lorlatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of acoramidis and lorlatinib due to the risk of decreased acoramidis exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Acoramidis is a UGT substrate and lorlatinib is a UGT inducer.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of acoramidis and lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Concurrent use may decrease acoramidis exposure which may reduce its efficacy.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of acoramidis and lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Concurrent use may decrease acoramidis exposure which may reduce its efficacy.
Meloxicam: (Moderate) Consider a meloxicam dose reduction and monitor for adverse reactions if coadministration with acoramidis is necessary. Concurrent use may increase meloxicam exposure. Meloxicam is a CYP2C9 substrate and acoramidis is a CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Moderate) Consider a meloxicam dose reduction and monitor for adverse reactions if coadministration with acoramidis is necessary. Concurrent use may increase meloxicam exposure. Meloxicam is a CYP2C9 substrate and acoramidis is a CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Methadone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of methadone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of acoramidis is necessary. If acoramidis is discontinued, methadone plasma concentrations can decrease resulting in reduced efficacy and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to methadone. Methadone is a substrate of CYP3A, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, and CYP2D6; acoramidis is a CYP2C9 inhibitor. Concomitant use with acoramidis can increase methadone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of methadone.
Methohexital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of acoramidis and barbiturates due to the risk of decreased acoramidis exposure which may reduce its efficacy.
Mitapivat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of acoramidis and mitapivat due to the risk of decreased acoramidis exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Acoramidis is a UGT substrate and mitapivat is a UGT inducer.
Mitotane: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of acoramidis and mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease acoramidis exposure which may reduce its efficacy.
Nateglinide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in nateglinide-related adverse effects, such as hypoglycemia, if concomitant use with acoramidis is necessary; a nateglinide dosage reduction may be required. Concomitant use may increase nateglinide exposure. Nateglinide is a CYP2C9 substrate and acoramidis is a CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of acoramidis and ritonavir due to the risk of decreased acoramidis exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Acoramidis is a UGT substrate and ritonavir is a UGT inducer.
OXcarbazepine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of acoramidis and oxcarbazepine due to the risk of decreased acoramidis exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Acoramidis is a UGT substrate and oxcarbazepine is a UGT inducer.
PENTobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of acoramidis and barbiturates due to the risk of decreased acoramidis exposure which may reduce its efficacy.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of acoramidis and barbiturates due to the risk of decreased acoramidis exposure which may reduce its efficacy.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of acoramidis and barbiturates due to the risk of decreased acoramidis exposure which may reduce its efficacy.
Phenytoin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of acoramidis and phenytoin/fosphenytoin due to the risk of decreased acoramidis exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Additionally, concomitant use may increase phenytoin exposure and the risk for phenytoin toxicity. Phenytoin is a CYP2C9 substrate and UGT inducer; acoramidis is a UGT substrate and CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Primidone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of acoramidis and barbiturates due to the risk of decreased acoramidis exposure which may reduce its efficacy.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of acoramidis and rifampin due to the risk of decreased acoramidis exposure which may reduce its efficacy.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of acoramidis and rifapentine. Concurrent use may decrease acoramidis exposure which may reduce its efficacy.
Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of acoramidis and ritonavir due to the risk of decreased acoramidis exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Acoramidis is a UGT substrate and ritonavir is a UGT inducer.
Rosuvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with acoramidis. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is an CYP2C9 substrate and acoramidis is an CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Rosuvastatin; Ezetimibe: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with acoramidis. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is an CYP2C9 substrate and acoramidis is an CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Secobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of acoramidis and barbiturates due to the risk of decreased acoramidis exposure which may reduce its efficacy.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of acoramidis and St. John's wort. Concurrent use may decrease acoramidis exposure which may reduce its efficacy.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Closely monitor the INR if coadministration of warfarin with acoramidis is necessary as concurrent use may increase the exposure of warfarin leading to increased bleeding risk. The active metabolite of warfarin, the S-enantiomer, is a CYP2C9 substrate and acoramidis is a CYP2C9 inhibitor. The S-enantiomer of warfarin exhibits 2 to 5 times more anticoagulant activity than the R-enantiomer, but the R-enantiomer generally has a slower clearance.


Adverse Reaction
General Information

An increase in serum creatinine and decrease in eGFR have occurred with acoramidis therapy. These changes in serum creatinine and eGFR generally occur within 4 weeks of starting therapy, then stabilize; the changes are reversible upon discontinuation of acoramidis therapy. In an acoramidis clinical trial, a mean increase in serum creatinine of 0.2 mg/dL and a mean decrease in eGFR of 8.2 mL/minute/1.73m2 was observed in acoramidis-treated subjects compared to a mean increase in serum creatinine of 0 mg/dL and a mean decrease in eGFR of 0.7 mL/minute/1.73m2 in placebo-treated subjects at Day 28 of therapy.
 
Transthyretin (TTR) stabilizers, including acoramidis, may decrease serum concentrations of free thyroxine without an accompanying change in thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH). The reduction in free thyroxine concentrations may be a result of a reduction in thyroxine binding or displacement from TTR.

abdominal pain, diarrhea


Gastrointestinal adverse reactions reported in acoramidis-treated subjects in a clinical trial included diarrhea (11.6%) and abdominal pain (5.5%) compared to 7.6% and 1.4% in placebo-treated subjects, respectively. The majority of these gastrointestinal adverse reactions were categorized as mild and resolved without drug discontinuation. Additionally, discontinuation of study drug due to an adverse event occurred in 9.3% of acoramidis-treated subjects compared to 8.5% of placebo-treated subjects.


Description

Acoramidis, a selective transthyretin stabilizer, is indicated for the treatment of cardiomyopathy of the wild-type or variant transthyretin-mediated amyloidosis (ATTR-CM) to reduce cardiovascular death and cardiovascular-related hospitalization in adults. Gastrointestinal adverse reactions (i.e., diarrhea and abdominal pain) were the most common adverse reactions reported in clinical trials. Acoramidis appears to be more potent, have better TTR binding affinity, and improved TTR stabilization when compared to other TTR stabilizers, such as tafamidis. Acoramidis was FDA-approved in November 2024.

Mechanism Of Action

Acoramidis is a selective transthyretin (TTR) stabilizer. Acoramidis exerts its therapeutic effect in the rate-limiting step of amyloidgenesis by binding to the thyroxine binding sites on TTR, stabilizing the tetramer and slowing dissociation of the tetramer into its constituent monomers. Due to either a reduction in thyroxine binding to or displacement from TTR, a reduction in thyroxine serum concentrations without an accompanying change to thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) may occur with acoramidis therapy. A reduction in free thyroxine has occurred with TTR stabilizers. Near-complete TTR stabilization (more than 90%) has been observed with acoramidis in both wild-type and variant TTR.
Pharmacodynamics:
In transthyretin-mediated amyloidosis (ATTR-CM) clinical trials, changes in serum TTR concentrations or in vitro TTR stabilization assays are utilized as pharmacodynamic markers of TTR stabilization. Compared to baseline serum TTR concentrations, individuals with wild-type or variant ATTR-CM treated with acoramidis experienced an increase in mean serum TTR concentrations by Day 28 of therapy. Based upon in vitro TTR stabilization assays, acoramidis-treated individuals had near-complete TTR stabilization as early as Day 28 and through completion of a 30-month study in individuals with wild-type and variant ATTR-CM.

Pharmacokinetics

Acoramidis is administered orally. Based on in vitro data, 96% of acoramidis is protein bound, and it primarily binds to transthyretin (TTR). The steady-state Vd for acoramidis is 654 L. Metabolism of acoramidis occurs primarily by glucuronidation via UGT1A9, UGT1A1, and UGT2B7. The predominant metabolite of acoramidis, beta-D-glucuronide (Acoramidis-AG), accounts for 8% of total circulating drug. Acoramidis-AG has approximately one-third of the pharmacological activity of acoramidis, has low potential for covalent binding, and does not contribute to pharmacological activity. Approximately 32% of acoramidis is recovered in feces and 68% in the urine with 15% and less than 10%, respectively, as unchanged drug. The half-life of acoramidis is approximately 6 hours with an apparent steady-state clearance of 16 L/hour.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP2C9, UGT1A9, UGT1A1, UGT2B7, OAT1, OAT3 and breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP).
Acoramidis is a time-dependent inhibitor of CYP2C9 and a substrate of UGT1A9, UGT1A1, UGT2B7, OAT1, and BCRP. Additionally, acoramidis is an inhibitor of OAT1 and OAT3.
 
Pharmacodynamics:
In a 30-month clinical trial, acoramidis demonstrated a smaller increase in N-terminal prohormone of brain natriuretic peptic (NT-proBNP) and troponin I compared to placebo. At Month 30, the increase in NT-proBNP with acoramidis was approximately half that of placebo.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route

Following oral administration, the Tmax of acoramidis is approximately 1 hour. Following single and multiple doses of acoramidis, systemic exposure (Cmax and AUC) increases in a less than dose proportional manner, such that, over a dose range of 89 mg twice daily to 712 mg twice daily, the increase in AUC is only 130%. At the approved dose of 712 mg twice daily, time to steady-state is 4 days and there is an approximate 1.3-fold accumulation. The mean Cmax and AUC0 to 12 hours at steady-state are 13,700 nanograms/mL and 47,200 nanograms x hour/mL, respectively. Administration of acoramidis with a high-fat meal (800 to 1,000 total calories, 50% or more fat) did not have a clinically significant effect on pharmacokinetics.

Hepatic Impairment

The effect of hepatic impairment (Child Pugh A, B, or C) on acoramidis pharmacokinetics is unknown.

Renal Impairment

Renal impairment does not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of acoramidis.

Geriatric

Age does not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of acoramidis.

Gender Differences

Gender does not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of acoramidis.

Ethnic Differences

Race/ethnicity (including Japanese and non-Japanese individuals) does not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of acoramidis.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Oral Administration
Oral Solid Formulations


Acoramidis may be taken with or without food.
Swallow tablets whole. Do not cut, crush, or chew.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

1424 mg/day PO.

Geriatric

1424 mg/day PO.

Adolescents

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Children

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

ATTRUBY 356mg Tablet

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

Renal Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

© 2026 Elsevier