=== Viloxazine (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5324)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Viloxazine is a selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor and partial serotonin 5-HT2C agonist indicated for the treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in adults and pediatric patients 6 to 17 years of age.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 600 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): drowsiness, fatigue, headache, lethargy, insomnia, irritability, mania, suicidal ideation, gastroesophageal reflux, fever, infection, pharyngitis, sinusitis

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Viloxazine is a selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor similar to atomoxetine and both medications may cause allergic reactions; however, cross-allergy has not been reported.

Brand Names
  - QELBREE

Dosage Forms
  - QELBREE 100mg Extended-Release Capsule
  - Qelbree 150mg Extended-Release Capsule
  - Qelbree 200mg Extended-Release Capsule

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        200 mg PO once daily, initially. May increase the dose by 200 mg/week based on clinical response and tolerability. Max: 600 mg PO once daily. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. Pharmacological treatment of ADHD may be needed for extended periods. Periodically reevaluate long-term use of viloxazine and adjust dosage as needed.
        Heading
        Children and Adolescents 12 to 17 years
        Dosage Description
        200 mg PO once daily, initially. May increase the dose by 200 mg/week based on clinical response and tolerability. Max: 400 mg PO once daily. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. Pharmacological treatment of ADHD may be needed for extended periods. Periodically reevaluate long-term use of viloxazine and adjust dosage as needed.
        Heading
        Children 6 to 11 years
        Dosage Description
        100 mg PO once daily, initially. May increase the dose by 100 mg/week based on clinical response and tolerability. Max: 400 mg PO once daily. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. Pharmacological treatment of ADHD may be needed for extended periods. Periodically reevaluate long-term use of viloxazine and adjust dosage as needed.
    Heading
    For the treatment of attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Viloxazine is a selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor similar to atomoxetine and both medications may cause allergic reactions; however, cross-allergy has not been reported.
    Headline
    bipolar disorder, depression, suicidal ideation
    General Information
    All people treated with viloxazine should be closely monitored for clinical worsening and emergence of suicidal ideation or behaviors, especially during the first few months of treatment and at times of dose changes. People should also be adequately screened for a personal or family history of bipolar disorder, mania, or hypomania prior to initiating treatment with viloxazine. Noradrenergic drugs like viloxazine may induce mania or a mixed episode in people with bipolar disorder. Consider changing the treatment plan, including discontinuation of viloxazine, in people who are experiencing acute changes consistent with emergent suicidal ideation or bipolar disorder or who demonstrate potential precursor symptoms, such as depression, anxiety, agitation, akathisia, irritability, impulsivity, or aggression, particularly if these symptoms are severe or abrupt in onset or were not part of the patient's presenting symptoms. Advise family members or caregivers to monitor for emergence of these symptoms and to report them immediately to the health care provider.
    Headline
    hypertension, tachycardia
    General Information
    Use viloxazine with caution in people with conditions (i.e., hypertension or tachycardia) that could deteriorate with significant increases in blood pressure or heart rate. Viloxazine increases heart rate and diastolic blood pressure (DBP). Increases in heart rate of 20 beats per minute (bpm) or more, or DBP increases of 15 mmHg or more were reported more frequently in pediatric (6 to 17 years of age) and adult (18 to 60 years of age) viloxazine-treated patients than placebo-treated patients during clinical trials. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure prior to initiating treatment with viloxazine, following dosage increases, and periodically while on therapy.
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    Renal excretion is the primary route of excretion of viloxazine, and dosage reduction is recommended in people with severe renal impairment or renal failure (eGFR of less than 30 mL/minute/1.73 m2). No dosage adjustment is needed in people with mild to moderate renal impairment.
    Headline
    activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery
    General Information
    The use of viloxazine may cause somnolence and fatigue and can impair the ability of a patient to participate in activities that require mental alertness, such as driving or operating machinery. Patients should not perform activities requiring coordination and concentration until they are aware of how viloxazine affects them.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Available data from case series with viloxazine use in pregnant women are insufficient to determine a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse maternal outcomes. Viloxazine may cause maternal and fetal harm when used during pregnancy based on findings from animal reproduction studies. Discontinue viloxazine once pregnancy is detected unless the benefits of therapy outweigh the potential maternal risk. In animal reproduction studies, oral administration during the period of organogenesis caused fetal toxicities and delayed fetal development in rats and and maternal toxicities in rabbits at doses up to the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of 600 mg in adults, based on mg/m2. Many of the no observed adverse effect levels (NOAELs) in these animal studies were less than or equal to the MRHD, based on mg/m2. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in pregnant individuals exposed to viloxazine. Health care providers are encouraged to register patients at the National Pregnancy Registry for Psychiatric Medications website: https://womensmentalhealth.org/research/pregnancyregistry/ or by calling 1-866-961-2388.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use viloxazine with caution during breast-feeding. Transfer of viloxazine and its active metabolite into human milk appears to be low. There are no data on the effects of viloxazine on the breastfed child or the effects on milk production. Data from a lactation study (n = 15) indicate that viloxazine and its metabolite, 5-HVLX-gluc, are present in breast milk, but the estimated daily infant dose is 0.085 mg/kg and 0.00595 mg/kg (using a nominal infant body weight of 6 kg), respectively. The relative infant dose (RID) is approximately 1% and 0.07%, respectively, of the weight-normalized maternal daily dose (8.58 mg/kg) of viloxazine. Consider the developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding along with the clinical need for viloxazine and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from viloxazine or from the patient's underlying condition. Consider if an alternate drug would be preferred, especially if breast-feeding a newborn or preterm infant. Methylphenidate may be considered as an alternative to other ADHD medications during lactation due to low excretion into breast milk; however, the medical use of stimulant medications during breast-feeding has not been formally evaluated.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Available data from case series with viloxazine use in pregnant women are insufficient to determine a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse maternal outcomes. Viloxazine may cause maternal and fetal harm when used during pregnancy based on findings from animal reproduction studies. Discontinue viloxazine once pregnancy is detected unless the benefits of therapy outweigh the potential maternal risk. In animal reproduction studies, oral administration during the period of organogenesis caused fetal toxicities and delayed fetal development in rats and and maternal toxicities in rabbits at doses up to the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of 600 mg in adults, based on mg/m2. Many of the no observed adverse effect levels (NOAELs) in these animal studies were less than or equal to the MRHD, based on mg/m2. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in pregnant individuals exposed to viloxazine. Health care providers are encouraged to register patients at the National Pregnancy Registry for Psychiatric Medications website: https://womensmentalhealth.org/research/pregnancyregistry/ or by calling 1-866-961-2388.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use viloxazine with caution during breast-feeding. Transfer of viloxazine and its active metabolite into human milk appears to be low. There are no data on the effects of viloxazine on the breastfed child or the effects on milk production. Data from a lactation study (n = 15) indicate that viloxazine and its metabolite, 5-HVLX-gluc, are present in breast milk, but the estimated daily infant dose is 0.085 mg/kg and 0.00595 mg/kg (using a nominal infant body weight of 6 kg), respectively. The relative infant dose (RID) is approximately 1% and 0.07%, respectively, of the weight-normalized maternal daily dose (8.58 mg/kg) of viloxazine. Consider the developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding along with the clinical need for viloxazine and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from viloxazine or from the patient's underlying condition. Consider if an alternate drug would be preferred, especially if breast-feeding a newborn or preterm infant. Methylphenidate may be considered as an alternative to other ADHD medications during lactation due to low excretion into breast milk; however, the medical use of stimulant medications during breast-feeding has not been formally evaluated.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of viloxazine is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and viloxazine is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of viloxazine is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and viloxazine is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of viloxazine is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and viloxazine is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of viloxazine is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and viloxazine is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dextromethorphan-related adverse effects if concomitant use of viloxazine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure; viloxazine is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dextromethorphan-related adverse effects if concomitant use of viloxazine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure; viloxazine is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dextromethorphan-related adverse effects if concomitant use of viloxazine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure; viloxazine is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dextromethorphan-related adverse effects if concomitant use of viloxazine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure; viloxazine is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dextromethorphan-related adverse effects if concomitant use of viloxazine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure; viloxazine is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dextromethorphan-related adverse effects if concomitant use of viloxazine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure; viloxazine is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dextromethorphan-related adverse effects if concomitant use of viloxazine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure; viloxazine is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dextromethorphan-related adverse effects if concomitant use of viloxazine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure; viloxazine is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dextromethorphan-related adverse effects if concomitant use of viloxazine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure; viloxazine is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with viloxazine may increase hydrocodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of hydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of viloxazine could decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to hydrocodone. If viloxazine is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP2D6 and CYP3A; viloxazine is a weak CYP2D6 and weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of viloxazine is necessary. If viloxazine is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with weak CYP3A4 inhibitors like viloxazine can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If viloxazine is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of alfentanil with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of viloxazine is necessary. If viloxazine is discontinued, consider increasing the alfentanil dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Alfentanil is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like viloxazine can increase alfentanil exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of alfentanil. If viloxazine is discontinued, alfentanil plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to alfentanil.
Alosetron: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of viloxazine and alosetron is contraindicated due to the increased risk for alosetron-related adverse effects and exposure. Alosetron is a CYP1A2 substrate and viloxazine is a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP1A2 inhibitor increased the mean alosetron AUC by about 6-fold and prolonged the half-life by 3-fold.
ALPRAZolam: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and viloxazine due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with viloxazine, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and viloxazine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A4 inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tricyclic antidepressant (TCA)-related adverse reactions if coadministration with viloxazine is necessary; a dose reduction of TCA may be necessary. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of TCAs which are CYP2D6 substrates; viloxazine is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Amoxapine: (Major) Lower doses of amoxapine may be required during concurrent use of viloxazine due to the potential for increased amoxapine exposure. If viloxazine is discontinued, an increased dose of amoxapine may be necessary. Amoxapine is a CYP2D6 substrate; viloxazine is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Anagrelide: (Moderate) Monitor for cardiovascular events including QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and vasodilation and titrate the anagrelide dose accordingly if concomitant use of viloxazine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase anagrelide exposure; anagrelide is a CYP1A2 substrate and viloxazine is a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor.
ARIPiprazole: (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and viloxazine vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer a quarter of the usual dose. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 200 mg/month or from 300 mg to 160 mg/month. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; viloxazine is a weak CYP2D6 and weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Asenapine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased asenapine-related adverse effects, such as extrapyramidal symptoms and QT prolongation, if concomitant use of viloxazine is necessary; dosage reduction of asenapine may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the exposure of asenapine; asenapine is a CYP1A2 substrate and viloxazine is a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of viloxazine is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and viloxazine is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of viloxazine is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and viloxazine is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of viloxazine is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and viloxazine is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of viloxazine is necessary. If viloxazine is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with weak CYP3A4 inhibitors like viloxazine can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If viloxazine is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Atomoxetine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atomoxetine and viloxazine. This combination may represent duplicate therapy and additive toxicities may occur. Additionally, atomoxetine exposure may increase. Atomoxetine is a CYP2D6 substrate and viloxazine is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Bendamustine: (Major) Consider the use of an alternative therapy if viloxazine treatment is needed in patients receiving bendamustine. Concomitant use of viloxazine may increase bendamustine exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions (e.g., myelosuppression, infection, hepatotoxicity). Bendamustine is a CYP1A2 substrate and viloxazine is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of benzhydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of viloxazine is necessary. Benzhydrocodone is a prodrug for hydrocodone. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with weak CYP3A4 inhibitors like viloxazine can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of benzhydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If viloxazine is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to benzhydrocodone.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) Monitor for increased timolol-related adverse reactions, including bradycardia and hypotension, during coadministration with viloxazine. Concomitant use may increase timolol exposure. Timolol is a CYP2D6 substrate and viloxazine is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dextromethorphan-related adverse effects if concomitant use of viloxazine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure; viloxazine is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dextromethorphan-related adverse effects if concomitant use of viloxazine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure; viloxazine is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Buprenorphine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of buprenorphine and viloxazine can increase the plasma concentration of buprenorphine, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects, particularly when viloxazine is added after a stable buprenorphine dose is achieved. If concurrent use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patient for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. When stopping viloxazine, the buprenorphine concentration may decrease, potentially resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependency. If viloxazine is discontinued, consider increasing buprenorphine dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Buprenorphine is a substrate of CYP3A4 and viloxazine is a CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of buprenorphine and viloxazine can increase the plasma concentration of buprenorphine, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects, particularly when viloxazine is added after a stable buprenorphine dose is achieved. If concurrent use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patient for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. When stopping viloxazine, the buprenorphine concentration may decrease, potentially resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependency. If viloxazine is discontinued, consider increasing buprenorphine dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Buprenorphine is a substrate of CYP3A4 and viloxazine is a CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of viloxazine is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and viloxazine is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of viloxazine is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and viloxazine is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of viloxazine is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and viloxazine is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of viloxazine is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and viloxazine is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Caffeine; Sodium Benzoate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of viloxazine is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and viloxazine is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
carBAMazepine: (Moderate) Monitor carbamazepine concentrations closely during coadministration of viloxazine; carbamazepine dose adjustments may be needed. Concomitant use may increase carbamazepine concentrations. Carbamazepine is a CYP3A4 substrate and viloxazine is a CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of tramadol with viloxazine may alter tramadol plasma concentrations, resulting in unpredictable effects such as reduced efficacy, signs of opioid withdrawal, and seizures, or prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, or profound sedation. Consider dose adjustments of tramadol until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. Tramadol is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to the active metabolite M1, and by CYP3A; viloxazine is a weak CYP2D6 and weak CYP3A inhibitor. CYP3A inhibitors may increase tramadol-related adverse effects while CYP2D6 inhibitors may reduce the plasma concentration of M1, resulting in decreased therapeutic effects.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tricyclic antidepressant (TCA)-related adverse reactions if coadministration with viloxazine is necessary; a dose reduction of TCA may be necessary. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of TCAs which are CYP2D6 substrates; viloxazine is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dextromethorphan-related adverse effects if concomitant use of viloxazine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure; viloxazine is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dextromethorphan-related adverse effects if concomitant use of viloxazine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure; viloxazine is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dextromethorphan-related adverse effects if concomitant use of viloxazine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure; viloxazine is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with viloxazine may increase hydrocodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of hydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of viloxazine could decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to hydrocodone. If viloxazine is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP2D6 and CYP3A; viloxazine is a weak CYP2D6 and weak CYP3A inhibitor.
chlorproMAZINE: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in chlorpromazine-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, anticholinergic effects, orthostasis, and somnolence, if coadministration with viloxazine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase chlorpromazine exposure. Chlorpromazine is a CYP2D6 substrate and viloxazine is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Cisapride: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cisapride and viloxazine; use increases cisapride exposure and the risk for adverse effects such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate and viloxazine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tricyclic antidepressant (TCA)-related adverse reactions if coadministration with viloxazine is necessary; a dose reduction of TCA may be necessary. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of TCAs which are CYP2D6 substrates; viloxazine is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
cloZAPine: (Major) Reduce the clozapine dose to one-third of the original dose when coadministered with viloxazine and monitor for adverse reactions. If viloxazine is discontinued, monitor for lack of clozapine effect and increase the clozapine dose if necessary. A clinically relevant increase in the plasma concentration of clozapine may occur during concurrent use, resulting in adverse reactions. Clozapine is a CYP1A2, CYP2D6, and CYP3A substrate; viloxazine is a strong CYP1A2, weak CYP2D6, and weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Conivaptan: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in conivaptan-related adverse effects if concomitant use of viloxazine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase conivaptan exposure; viloxazine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor and conivaptan is a CYP3A substrate.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Closely monitor cyclosporine whole blood trough concentrations as appropriate and watch for cyclosporine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with viloxazine is necessary. The dose of cyclosporine may need to be adjusted. Concurrent use may increase cyclosporine exposure causing an increased risk for cyclosporine-related adverse events. Cyclosporine is a CYP3A4 substrate and viloxazine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Desipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tricyclic antidepressant (TCA)-related adverse reactions if coadministration with viloxazine is necessary; a dose reduction of TCA may be necessary. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of TCAs which are CYP2D6 substrates; viloxazine is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dextromethorphan-related adverse effects if concomitant use of viloxazine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure; viloxazine is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dextromethorphan-related adverse effects if concomitant use of viloxazine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure; viloxazine is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dextromethorphan-related adverse effects if concomitant use of viloxazine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure; viloxazine is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Dextromethorphan; buPROPion: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dextromethorphan-related adverse effects if concomitant use of viloxazine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure; viloxazine is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dextromethorphan-related adverse effects if concomitant use of viloxazine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure; viloxazine is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dextromethorphan-related adverse effects if concomitant use of viloxazine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure; viloxazine is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dextromethorphan-related adverse effects if concomitant use of viloxazine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure; viloxazine is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dextromethorphan-related adverse effects if concomitant use of viloxazine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure; viloxazine is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dextromethorphan-related adverse effects if concomitant use of viloxazine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure; viloxazine is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in diazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with viloxazine is necessary. Concurrent use may increase diazepam exposure. Diazepam is a CYP3A4 substrate and viloxazine is a CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Diazoxide: (Major) For patients receiving diazoxide extended-release tablets, a diazoxide dosage decrease of approximately 30% to 50% is required if concomitant use with viloxazine is necessary. Specific diazoxide dosing recommendations vary by patient weight; see prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase diazoxide exposure and the risk for diazoxide-related adverse effects. Diazoxide is a CYP1A2 substrate and viloxazine is a CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP1A2 inhibitor increased diazoxide overall exposure by 1.6-fold.
Disopyramide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in disopyramide-related adverse reactions if coadministration with viloxazine is necessary as concurrent use may increase disopyramide exposure. Disopyramide is a CYP3A4 substrate and viloxazine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Although specific drug interaction studies have not been done for disopyramide, cases of life-threatening interactions have been reported when disopyramide was coadministered with moderate and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Dofetilide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with viloxazine is necessary as concurrent use may increase dofetilide exposure. Viloxazine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A4 substrate; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Moderate) Monitor for increased timolol-related adverse reactions, including bradycardia and hypotension, during coadministration with viloxazine. Concomitant use may increase timolol exposure. Timolol is a CYP2D6 substrate and viloxazine is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Doxepin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tricyclic antidepressant (TCA)-related adverse reactions if coadministration with viloxazine is necessary; a dose reduction of TCA may be necessary. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of TCAs which are CYP2D6 substrates; viloxazine is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
DULoxetine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of viloxazine and duloxetine is contraindicated due to the increased risk for duloxetine-related adverse effects and exposure. Duloxetine is a CYP1A2 and CYP2D6 substrate and viloxazine is a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor and weak CYP2D6 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP1A2 inhibitor increased duloxetine exposure by approximately 6-fold.
Edoxaban: (Major) Coadministration of edoxaban with other drugs that affect hemostasis, such as selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), increases the risk of bleeding. If these drugs are administered together, instruct patients to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding, and to promptly report any bleeding events to their practitioner.
Eliglustat: (Major) Coadministration of eliglustat and viloxazine is not recommended in poor CYP2D6 metabolizers (PMs). In normal (extensive) CYP2D6 metabolizers with mild hepatic impairment, coadministration of these agents requires dosage reduction of eliglustat to 84 mg PO once daily. Viloxazine is a weak CYP3A and weak CYP2D6 inhibitor; eliglustat is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate. Because CYP3A plays a significant role in the metabolism of eliglustat in CYP2D6 PMs, coadministration of eliglustat with CYP3A inhibitors may increase eliglustat exposure and the risk of serious adverse events (e.g., QT prolongation and cardiac arrhythmias).
Ergotamine; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in caffeine-related adverse reactions, including nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tachycardia, or tremor, if concomitant use of viloxazine is necessary; lower caffeine doses may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase caffeine exposure; caffeine is a CYP1A2 substrate and viloxazine is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Erlotinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erlotinib with viloxazine if possible due to the increased risk of erlotinib-related adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable and severe reactions occur, reduce the dose of erlotinib by 50 mg decrements. Erlotinib is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and to a lesser extent by CYP1A2; viloxazine is a weak CYP3A4 and strong CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4/CYP1A2 inhibitor increased erlotinib exposure by 39% and increased the erlotinib Cmax by 17%.
Ezetimibe; Simvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in simvastatin-related adverse effects, like myopathy, if concomitant use of viloxazine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase simvastatin exposure; viloxazine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor and simvastatin is a CYP3A substrate.
Felodipine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of felodipine and viloxazine should be approached with caution and conservative dosing of felodipine due to the potential for significant increases in felodipine exposure. Monitor for evidence of increased felodipine effects including decreased blood pressure and increased heart rate. Felodipine is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and viloxazine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concurrent use of another weak CYP3A4 inhibitor increased felodipine AUC and Cmax by approximately 50%.
Fenfluramine: (Major) Do not exceed a maximum dose of fenfluramine 20 mg per day if coadministered with viloxazine; for patients also receiving stiripentol plus clobazam, do not exceed a maximum dose of fenfluramine 17 mg per day. Concomitant use may increase fenfluramine plasma concentrations and the risk of adverse reactions. Fenfluramine is a CYP1A2 substrate and viloxazine is a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP1A2 inhibitor increased fenfluramine overall exposure by 102% and decreased norfenfluramine overall exposure by 22%.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of fentanyl with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of viloxazine is necessary. If viloxazine is discontinued, consider increasing the fentanyl dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Fentanyl is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like viloxazine can increase fentanyl exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of fentanyl. If viloxazine is discontinued, fentanyl plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to fentanyl.
Fezolinetant: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of fezolinetant and viloxazine is contraindicated due to the risk of increased fezolinetant exposure which may increase the risk of fezolinetant-related adverse effects. Fezolinetant is a CYP1A2 substrate; viloxazine is a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP1A2 inhibitor increased fezolinetant overall exposure by 840%.
Finerenone: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium during initiation or dose adjustment of either finerenone or viloxazine; a finerenone dosage reduction may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase finerenone exposure and the risk of hyperkalemia. Finerenone is a CYP3A substrate and viloxazine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased overall exposure to finerenone by 21%.
Flecainide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in flecainide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with viloxazine is necessary. Flecainide is a CYP2D6 substrate and viloxazine is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor. Plasma concentrations of flecainide may increase, especially in normal (extensive) CYP2D6 metabolizers.
Flibanserin: (Moderate) The concomitant use of flibanserin and multiple weak CYP3A4 inhibitors, including viloxazine, may increase flibanserin concentrations, which may increase the risk of flibanserin-induced adverse reactions. Therefore, patients should be monitored for hypotension, syncope, somnolence, or other adverse reactions, and the potential outcomes of combination therapy with multiple weak CYP3A4 inhibitors and flibanserin should be discussed with the patient.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased fluoxetine-related adverse effects if coadministered with viloxazine. Concomitant use may increase fluoxetine exposure. Fluoxetine is a CYP2D6 substrate and viloxazine is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with viloxazine may increase hydrocodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of hydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of viloxazine could decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to hydrocodone. If viloxazine is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP2D6 and CYP3A; viloxazine is a weak CYP2D6 and weak CYP3A inhibitor.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with viloxazine may increase hydrocodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of hydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of viloxazine could decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to hydrocodone. If viloxazine is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP2D6 and CYP3A; viloxazine is a weak CYP2D6 and weak CYP3A inhibitor.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with viloxazine may increase hydrocodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of hydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of viloxazine could decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to hydrocodone. If viloxazine is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP2D6 and CYP3A; viloxazine is a weak CYP2D6 and weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Imipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tricyclic antidepressant (TCA)-related adverse reactions if coadministration with viloxazine is necessary; a dose reduction of TCA may be necessary. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of TCAs which are CYP2D6 substrates; viloxazine is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Iobenguane I 131: (Major) Discontinue selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors for at least 5 half-lives before the administration of the dosimetry dose or a therapeutic dose of iobenguane I-131. Do not restart selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors until at least 7 days after each iobenguane I-131 dose. Drugs that reduce catecholamine uptake or deplete catecholamine stores, such as selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, may interfere with iobenguane I-131 uptake into cells and interfere with dosimetry calculations resulting in altered iobenguane I-131 efficacy.
Isocarboxazid: (Contraindicated) The use of selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors with monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) is contraindicated. At least 2 weeks should elapse between the discontinuation of a drug with MAO inhibiting activity and the start of selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, or vice-versa. Selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors potentiate certain catecholamines by inhibiting neuronal reuptake. Reactions with MAOIs may include confusion, seizures, and severe hypertension as well as less severe symptoms.
Isradipine: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in isradipine-related adverse reactions including hypotension if coadministration with viloxazine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase isradipine exposure. Isradipine is a CYP3A substrate and viloxazine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Ixabepilone: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of viloxazine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and viloxazine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Lemborexant: (Major) Limit the dose of lemborexant to 5 mg PO once daily if coadministered with viloxazine as concomitant use may increase lemborexant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Lemborexant is a CYP3A substrate; viloxazine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a weak CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase lemborexant exposure by less than 2-fold.
Lidocaine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with viloxazine is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP1A2 and CYP3A substrate and viloxazine is a strong CYP1A2 and weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another CYP1A2 inhibitor increased lidocaine exposure by 71%.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with viloxazine is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP1A2 and CYP3A substrate and viloxazine is a strong CYP1A2 and weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another CYP1A2 inhibitor increased lidocaine exposure by 71%.
Lidocaine; Prilocaine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with viloxazine is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP1A2 and CYP3A substrate and viloxazine is a strong CYP1A2 and weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another CYP1A2 inhibitor increased lidocaine exposure by 71%.
Lofexidine: (Moderate) Monitor for orthostatic hypotension and bradycardia during concurrent use of lofexidine and viloxazine. Coadministration may increase lofexidine exposure. Lofexidine is a CYP2D6 substrate; viloxazine is a CYP2D6 inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased the lofexidine AUC by 28%.
Lomitapide: (Major) Decrease the dose of lomitapide by one-half not to exceed 30 mg/day PO if coadministration with viloxazine is necessary. Concomitant use may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Viloxazine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lonafarnib and viloxazine; concurrent use may increase the exposure of lonafarnib and the risk of adverse effects. If coadministration is unavoidable, reduce to or continue lonafarnib at a dosage of 115 mg/m2 and closely monitor patients for lonafarnib-related adverse reactions. Resume previous lonafarnib dosage 14 days after discontinuing viloxazine. Lonafarnib is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and viloxazine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Meclizine: (Moderate) Monitor for meclizine-related adverse effects, such as drowsiness and anticholinergic effects, when coadministered with viloxazine. Concomitant use may increase the exposure to meclizine. Meclizine is a CYP2D6 substrate and viloxazine is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Mefloquine: (Moderate) Use mefloquine with caution if coadministration with viloxazine is necessary as concurrent use may increase mefloquine exposure and mefloquine-related adverse events. Mefloquine is a substrate of CYP3A4 and viloxazine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Melatonin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in melatonin-related adverse reactions if concomitant use of viloxazine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase melatonin exposure; melatonin is a CYP1A2 substrate and viloxazine is a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor. In some cases, a dose reduction of melatonin might be needed.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of meperidine with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of viloxazine is necessary. If viloxazine is discontinued, meperidine plasma concentrations can decrease resulting in reduced efficacy and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to meperidine. Meperidine is a substrate of CYP3A4 and viloxazine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use with viloxazine can increase meperidine exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of meperidine.
Methadone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of methadone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of viloxazine is necessary. If viloxazine is discontinued, methadone plasma concentrations can decrease resulting in reduced efficacy and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to methadone. Methadone is a substrate of CYP3A4, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, and CYP2D6; viloxazine is a weak CYP3A and weak CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use with viloxazine can increase methadone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of methadone.
Methylergonovine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and viloxazine. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and viloxazine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Metoprolol: (Moderate) Monitor for increased metoprolol-related adverse reactions, including bradycardia and hypotension, during coadministration with viloxazine. Concomitant use may increase metoprolol serum concentrations which would decrease the cardioselectivity of metoprolol. Metoprolol is a CYP2D6 substrate and viloxazine is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for increased metoprolol-related adverse reactions, including bradycardia and hypotension, during coadministration with viloxazine. Concomitant use may increase metoprolol serum concentrations which would decrease the cardioselectivity of metoprolol. Metoprolol is a CYP2D6 substrate and viloxazine is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Mexiletine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of mexiletine if coadministered with viloxazine. Coadministration may increase serum concentrations of mexiletine. Mexiletine is a CYP2D6 substrate and viloxazine is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Midazolam: (Moderate) Use caution when midazolam is coadministered with viloxazine. Concurrent use may increase midazolam exposure leading to prolonged sedation. Midazolam is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and viloxazine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: (Contraindicated) The use of selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors with monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) is contraindicated. At least 2 weeks should elapse between the discontinuation of a drug with MAO inhibiting activity and the start of selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, or vice-versa. Selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors potentiate certain catecholamines by inhibiting neuronal reuptake. Reactions with MAOIs may include confusion, seizures, and severe hypertension as well as less severe symptoms.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound Sirolimus: (Major) Reduce the nab-sirolimus dose to 56 mg/m2 during concomitant use of viloxazine. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and increase the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a CYP3A substrate and viloxazine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
niMODipine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with viloxazine is necessary. Concurrent use may increase nimodipine exposure. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and viloxazine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Nisoldipine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nisoldipine with viloxazine due to increased plasma concentrations of nisoldipine. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor blood pressure closely during concurrent use of these medications. Nisoldipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and viloxazine is a CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the AUC of nisoldipine by 30% to 45%.
Nortriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tricyclic antidepressant (TCA)-related adverse reactions if coadministration with viloxazine is necessary; a dose reduction of TCA may be necessary. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of TCAs which are CYP2D6 substrates; viloxazine is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Monitor for olanzapine-related adverse effects, including sedation, anticholinergic effects, hypotension, and QT prolongation, if concomitant use of viloxazine is necessary. A dose reduction of olanzapine may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase olanzapine exposure. Direct glucuronidation and CYP metabolism via CYP2D6 and CYP1A2 are the primary metabolic pathways for olanzapine. Viloxazine is a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor and weak CYP2D6.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased fluoxetine-related adverse effects if coadministered with viloxazine. Concomitant use may increase fluoxetine exposure. Fluoxetine is a CYP2D6 substrate and viloxazine is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for olanzapine-related adverse effects, including sedation, anticholinergic effects, hypotension, and QT prolongation, if concomitant use of viloxazine is necessary. A dose reduction of olanzapine may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase olanzapine exposure. Direct glucuronidation and CYP metabolism via CYP2D6 and CYP1A2 are the primary metabolic pathways for olanzapine. Viloxazine is a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor and weak CYP2D6.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for olanzapine-related adverse effects, including sedation, anticholinergic effects, hypotension, and QT prolongation, if concomitant use of viloxazine is necessary. A dose reduction of olanzapine may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase olanzapine exposure. Direct glucuronidation and CYP metabolism via CYP2D6 and CYP1A2 are the primary metabolic pathways for olanzapine. Viloxazine is a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor and weak CYP2D6.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of viloxazine is necessary. If viloxazine is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with weak CYP3A4 inhibitors like viloxazine can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If viloxazine is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
PARoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in paroxetine-related adverse reactions, including serotonin syndrome, if concomitant use with viloxazine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase paroxetine exposure. Paroxetine is a CYP2D6 substrate and viloxazine is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor. Coadministration with a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor increased paroxetine overall exposure by 50%.
Perphenazine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in perphenazine-related adverse effects if concomitant use of viloxazine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase perphenazine exposure; viloxazine is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor and perphenazine is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in perphenazine-related adverse effects if concomitant use of viloxazine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase perphenazine exposure; viloxazine is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor and perphenazine is a CYP2D6 substrate. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tricyclic antidepressant (TCA)-related adverse reactions if coadministration with viloxazine is necessary; a dose reduction of TCA may be necessary. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of TCAs which are CYP2D6 substrates; viloxazine is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Phenelzine: (Contraindicated) The use of selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors with monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) is contraindicated. At least 2 weeks should elapse between the discontinuation of a drug with MAO inhibiting activity and the start of selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, or vice-versa. Selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors potentiate certain catecholamines by inhibiting neuronal reuptake. Reactions with MAOIs may include confusion, seizures, and severe hypertension as well as less severe symptoms.
Pimozide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of pimozide and viloxazine. Concomitant use may result in elevated pimozide concentrations resulting in QT prolongation, ventricular arrhythmias, and sudden death. Pimozide is a CYP3A, 2D6 and 1A2 substrate, and viloxazine is a strong CYP1A2, weak CYP2D6, and weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Pirfenidone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of viloxazine and pirfenidone due to the increased risk for pirfenidone-related adverse effects and exposure. Pirfenidone is a CYP1A2 substrate and viloxazine is a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dextromethorphan-related adverse effects if concomitant use of viloxazine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure; viloxazine is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Propafenone: (Moderate) Monitor for increased propafenone toxicity if coadministered with viloxazine; concurrent use may increase propafenone exposure and therefore increase the risk of proarrhythmias. Propafenone is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; viloxazine is a weak CYP3A4 and a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Monitor for increased propranolol adverse reactions, including bradycardia and hypotension, during coadministration of viloxazine as concurrent use may increase propranolol exposure. Propranolol is a CYP2D6 and CYP1A2 substrate and viloxazine is a strong 1A2 inhibitor and a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Protriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tricyclic antidepressant (TCA)-related adverse reactions if coadministration with viloxazine is necessary; a dose reduction of TCA may be necessary. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of TCAs which are CYP2D6 substrates; viloxazine is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Ramelteon: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of viloxazine and ramelteon is contraindicated due to the increased risk for ramelteon-related adverse effects and exposure. Ramelteon is a CYP1A2 substrate and viloxazine is a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP1A2 inhibitor increased ramelteon exposure by 190-fold.
Rasagiline: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of viloxazine with rasagiline or within two weeks after discontinuing rasagiline is contraindicated due to the risk for hypertensive crisis. If use is necessary, do not exceed a rasagiline dose of 0.5 mg once daily when coadministered with viloxazine. Coadministration may also result in increased rasagiline concentrations. Rasagiline is primarily metabolized by CYP1A2; viloxazine is a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor. When rasagiline was administered with a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor, the AUC of rasagiline increased by 83%.
Riluzole: (Moderate) Coadministration of riluzole with viloxazine may increase the risk for riluzole-related adverse reactions, such as gastrointestinal symptoms and elevated hepatic enzymes. In vitro findings suggest an increase in riluzole exposure is likely. Riluzole is a CYP1A2 substrate and viloxazine is a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in risperidone-related adverse effects if concomitant use of viloxazine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase risperidone exposure. Viloxazine is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor and risperidone is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Rivaroxaban: (Major) Coadministration of rivaroxaban with other drugs that affect hemostasis, such as selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), increases the risk of bleeding. If these drugs are administered together, instruct patients to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding, and to promptly report any bleeding events to their practitioner.
Roflumilast: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in roflumilast-related adverse reactions if concomitant use with viloxazine is necessary. Concurrent use may increase roflumilast exposure. Roflumilast is a CYP3A4 and CYP1A2 substrate and viloxazine is a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor and weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of roflumilast with other dual CYP3A4/CYP1A2 inhibitors increased the exposure of roflumilast by 85% to 156%.
rOPINIRole: (Moderate) A dose adjustment of ropinirole may be needed when therapy with viloxazine is initiated or discontinued. Concomitant use of ropinirole and viloxazine may increase the exposure of ropinirole. Ropinirole is a CYP1A2 substrate and viloxazine is a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP1A2 inhibitor increased ropinirole exposure by 84%.
ROPivacaine: (Moderate) Use caution when ropivacaine is coadministered with viloxazine. Concomitant use may lead to increased ropivacaine concentrations. Ropivacaine is a CYP1A2 substrate and viloxazine is a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP1A2 inhibitor decreased the clearance of ropivacaine by 70%.
Safinamide: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of viloxazine with safinamide or within 2 weeks after discontinuing safinamide is contraindicated due to the risk for hypertensive crisis.
Selegiline: (Contraindicated) Selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors are contraindicated for use with selegiline because of a possible increased risk of hypertensive crisis. At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of selegiline and initiation of treatment with a selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor. After stopping treatment with the reuptake inhibitor, a time period equal to 4 to 5 half-lives of the reuptake inhibitor or any active metabolite should elapse before starting therapy with selegiline.
Simvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in simvastatin-related adverse effects, like myopathy, if concomitant use of viloxazine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase simvastatin exposure; viloxazine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor and simvastatin is a CYP3A substrate.
Sirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor sirolimus concentrations and adjust sirolimus dosage as appropriate during concomitant use of viloxazine. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and increase the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a CYP3A substrate and viloxazine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Because the dose of the sufentanil sublingual tablets cannot be titrated, consider an alternate opiate if viloxazine must be administered. Consider a reduced dose of sufentanil injection with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of viloxazine is necessary. If viloxazine is discontinued, consider increasing the sufentanil injection dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Sufentanil is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor like viloxazine can increase sufentanil exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of sufentanil. If viloxazine is discontinued, sufentanil plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to sufentanil.
Tacrolimus: (Moderate) Monitor tacrolimus serum concentrations as appropriate and watch for tacrolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with viloxazine is necessary. The dose of tacrolimus may need to be reduced. Tacrolimus is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate with a narrow therapeutic range; viloxazine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Tapentadol: (Major) Caution is advised when tapentadol is coadministered with selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. The combined use of these drugs may result in excessive concentrations of norepinephrine, increasing the risk of adverse cardiac effects. If concomitant treatment is clinically warranted, careful observation of the patient is advised, especially during initiation of the second therapy and after dosage adjustments (increases) of either agent.
Tasimelteon: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of viloxazine and tasimelteon is contraindicated due to the increased risk for tasimelteon-related adverse effects and exposure. Tasimelteon is a CYP1A2 substrate and viloxazine is a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP1A2 inhibitor increased tasimelteon exposure by 7-fold.
Theophylline, Aminophylline: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of viloxazine and aminophylline is contraindicated due to the increased risk for aminophylline-related adverse effects and exposure. Theophylline is a CYP1A2 substrate and viloxazine is a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor. (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of viloxazine and theophylline is contraindicated due to the increased risk for theophylline-related adverse effects and exposure. Theophylline is a CYP1A2 substrate and viloxazine is a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Thioridazine: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of thioridazine and viloxazine is contraindicated due to the potential for increased thioridazine exposure. Increased plasma concentrations of thioridazine are expected to increase the prolongation of the QTc interval associated with thioridazine and may increase the risk of serious, potentially fatal, cardiac arrhythmias, such as torsade de pointes type arrhythmias. Thioridazine is a CYP2D6 substrate and viloxazine is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Timolol: (Moderate) Monitor for increased timolol-related adverse reactions, including bradycardia and hypotension, during coadministration with viloxazine. Concomitant use may increase timolol exposure. Timolol is a CYP2D6 substrate and viloxazine is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor.
tiZANidine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of viloxazine and tizanidine is contraindicated due to the increased risk for tizanidine-related adverse effects and exposure. Tizanidine is a CYP1A2 substrate and viloxazine is a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor. Coadministration with other strong CYP1A2 inhibitors increased the exposure of tizanidine by 10 and 33-fold.
Tolterodine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tolterodine-related adverse effects if concomitant use of viloxazine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tolterodine exposure; viloxazine is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor and tolterodine is a CYP2D6 substrate.
traMADol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of tramadol with viloxazine may alter tramadol plasma concentrations, resulting in unpredictable effects such as reduced efficacy, signs of opioid withdrawal, and seizures, or prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, or profound sedation. Consider dose adjustments of tramadol until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. Tramadol is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to the active metabolite M1, and by CYP3A; viloxazine is a weak CYP2D6 and weak CYP3A inhibitor. CYP3A inhibitors may increase tramadol-related adverse effects while CYP2D6 inhibitors may reduce the plasma concentration of M1, resulting in decreased therapeutic effects.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of tramadol with viloxazine may alter tramadol plasma concentrations, resulting in unpredictable effects such as reduced efficacy, signs of opioid withdrawal, and seizures, or prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, or profound sedation. Consider dose adjustments of tramadol until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. Tramadol is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to the active metabolite M1, and by CYP3A; viloxazine is a weak CYP2D6 and weak CYP3A inhibitor. CYP3A inhibitors may increase tramadol-related adverse effects while CYP2D6 inhibitors may reduce the plasma concentration of M1, resulting in decreased therapeutic effects.
Tranylcypromine: (Contraindicated) The use of selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors with monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) is contraindicated. At least 2 weeks should elapse between the discontinuation of a drug with MAO inhibiting activity and the start of selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, or vice-versa. Selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors potentiate certain catecholamines by inhibiting neuronal reuptake. Reactions with MAOIs may include confusion, seizures, and severe hypertension as well as less severe symptoms.
Triazolam: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with viloxazine. Coadministration may increase the exposure of triazolam. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and viloxazine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Triclabendazole: (Moderate) Monitor for QT/QTc prolongation if concomitant use of triclabendazole and viloxazine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase triclabendazole exposure and the risk for triclabendazole-related adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation. Triclabendazole is a CYP1A2 substrate and viloxazine is a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tricyclic antidepressant (TCA)-related adverse reactions if coadministration with viloxazine is necessary; a dose reduction of TCA may be necessary. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of TCAs which are CYP2D6 substrates; viloxazine is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Trimipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tricyclic antidepressant (TCA)-related adverse reactions if coadministration with viloxazine is necessary; a dose reduction of TCA may be necessary. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of TCAs which are CYP2D6 substrates; viloxazine is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Ubrogepant: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with viloxazine. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; viloxazine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Venlafaxine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in venlafaxine-related adverse effects if concomitant use of viloxazine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase venlafaxine exposure; viloxazine is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor and venlafaxine is a CYP2D6 substrate. Since both drugs may increase blood pressure via blocking of norepinephrine reuptake, blood pressure and heart rate should be monitored periodically.
Vinorelbine: (Moderate) Monitor for an earlier onset and/or increased severity of vinorelbine-related adverse reactions, including constipation and peripheral neuropathy, if coadministration with viloxazine is necessary. Vinorelbine is a CYP3A4 substrate and viloxazine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Vorasidenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vorasidenib and viloxazine due to the risk for increased vorasidenib exposure which may increase the risk for vorasidenib-related adverse effects. Vorasidenib is a CYP1A2 substrate and viloxazine is a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use with a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor is predicted to increase vorasidenib overall exposure by over 5-fold.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Closely monitor the INR if coadministration of warfarin with viloxazine is necessary as concurrent use may increase the exposure of warfarin leading to increased bleeding risk. The R-enantiomer of warfarin is a CYP1A2 and CYP3A substrate; viloxazine is a strong CYP1A2 and weak CYP3A inhibitor. The S-enantiomer of warfarin exhibits 2 to 5 times more anticoagulant activity than the R-enantiomer, but the R-enantiomer generally has a slower clearance.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    drowsiness, fatigue, headache, lethargy
    General Information
    Central nervous system related adverse reactions that were reported in viloxazine-treated pediatric patients (6 to 17 years of age) at higher incidences than with placebo treatment during clinical trials included drowsiness (including lethargy and sedation; 16% vs. 4%), headache (11% vs. 4%), and fatigue (6% vs. 2%). In placebo-controlled clinical trials of adult patients treated with viloxazine, similar CNS adverse reactions were reported with fatigue (12% vs. 3%), lethargy (including drowsiness/sedation and somnolence; 6% vs. 2%), and headache (17% vs 7%) among the most common effects.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      lethargy
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    insomnia, irritability, mania, suicidal ideation
    General Information
    Higher rates of suicidal ideation and behavior were reported in viloxazine-treated pediatric patients (6 to 17 years of age) compared with placebo-treated patients (0.9% vs. 0.4%) in clinical trials. Suicidal ideation was also reported in adult patients enrolled in a clinical trial of viloxazine, with 3 patients (1.6%) reporting suicidal ideation compared to no reports in the placebo group. Pediatric patients treated with viloxazine also had higher rates of insomnia (4%) and irritability (3%) vs. those treated with placebo. These effects were also seen in adult patients, with 23% of patients receiving 200 to 600 mg of viloxazine once daily experiencing insomnia compared to 7% of patients on placebo. Irritability was also noted, affecting 4% of adult patients taking viloxazine compared to 3% of patients receiving placebo. Noradrenergic drugs, such as viloxazine, may also induce a manic or mixed episode in patients with bipolar disorder; mania or hypomania may occur. Although a causal link between the emergence of mood or behavioral changes and the emergence of suicidal impulses has not been established, there is a concern that these and other symptoms such as depression, anxiety, agitation, akathisia, mania, hypomania, panic attacks, impulsive behavior, and aggression may represent precursors to emerging suicidal ideation or behavior. Monitor patients closely for emergence of such symptoms and for clinical worsening and emergence of suicidal thoughts and behaviors, especially during the initial few months of drug therapy, and at times of dosage changes. Consider changing the therapeutic regimen, including possibly discontinuing viloxazine, in patients who are experiencing emergent suicidal thoughts and behaviors or symptoms that might be precursors to emerging suicidal ideation or behavior, especially if these symptoms are severe or abrupt in onset, or were not part of the patient's presenting symptoms. Advise family members or caregivers of patients to monitor for the emergence of mood or behavioral changes and suicidal ideation or behavior, and to report such symptoms immediately to the health care provider.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      irritability
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      mania
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      suicidal ideation
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    abdominal pain, constipation, gastroesophageal reflux, nausea, vomiting, xerostomia
    General Information
    Gastrointestinal (GI) adverse reactions were reported in more viloxazine-treated pediatric patients (6 to 17 years of age) than placebo-treated patients during clinical trials, and included abdominal pain (5% vs. 4% in placebo group), nausea (5% vs. 3%), and vomiting (4% vs. 2%). Similar GI adverse effects were seen in clinical trials of adult patients, with the most common GI effects being nausea (12% vs. 3% for placebo), xerostomia (10% vs. 2%), constipation (6% vs. 1%), vomiting (4% vs. 1%) and gastroesophageal reflux disease (2% vs. 1% for placebo).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      gastroesophageal reflux
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anorexia, weight loss
    General Information
    Decreased appetite or anorexia was a common side effect occurring in 7% of pediatric patients (6 to 17 years of age) during viloxazine clinical trials. Reduced weight gain and/or weight loss has also been reported. In short-term, controlled studies (6 to 8 weeks), viloxazine-treated patients 6 to 11 years of age gained an average of 0.2 kg, compared to a gain of 1 kg in same-aged patients who received placebo. Viloxazine-treated patients 12 to 17 years of age lost an average of 0.2 kg, compared to a weight gain of 1.5 kg in same-aged patients who received placebo. In a long-term, open-label extension safety trial, among the 338 patients evaluated at 12 months, the mean change from baseline in weight-forage z-score was -0.2 (standard deviation of 0.5). In the absence of a control group, it is unclear whether the weight change observed in the long-term open-label extension was attributable to the effect of viloxazine. In clinical trials of adult patients, 10% of patients receiving viloxazine 200 to 600 mg once daily experienced decreased appetite compared to 3% of patients receiving placebo. Patients receiving viloxazine should be monitored for weight changes during therapy.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      weight loss
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hypertension, sinus tachycardia
    General Information
    Increased heart rate and diastolic blood pressure (DBP) may occur with viloxazine treatment. Increases in heart rate of 20 beats per minute (bpm) or more were reported more frequently in viloxazine-treated adult or pediatric patients (6 to 17 years of age) than placebo-treated patients during clinical trials. Sinus tachycardia was listed as a reason for drug discontinuation in some patients. The incidences of increased heart rate at any point in time during treatment of pediatric patients were as follows: 22% for patients receiving viloxazine 100 mg once daily (vs. 9% for placebo), 22% to 31% for patients receiving viloxazine 200 mg once daily (vs. 14% to 15% for placebo), and 28% to 34% for patients receiving viloxazine 400 mg once daily (vs. 17% to 23% for placebo). Tachycardia was a reason for drug discontinuation in 2 of 826 pediatric patients during clinical studies. In pediatric patients 12 to 17 years of age receiving viloxazine 400 mg once daily, 25% experienced a 15 mmHg or higher increase in DBP compared with 13% of patients receiving placebo. In adult patients (18 to 60 years of age), 29% of patients receiving viloxazine 200 to 600 mg once daily experienced an increase in heart rate compared to 13% of patients on placebo. Sinus tachycardia was reported in 4% of treated adult patients vs. 1% with placebo. A 15 mmHg or higher increase in DBP was noted in 13% of treated adults (compared to 9% with placebo). Hypertension was not noted, but might occur in some patients based on an increased DBP. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure prior to initiating treatment with viloxazine, following dosage increases, and periodically while on therapy.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      sinus tachycardia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    fever, infection, pharyngitis, sinusitis
    General Information
    Upper respiratory tract infection, including nasopharyngitis, pharyngitis, sinusitis, upper respiratory tract infection, viral sinusitis, and viral upper respiratory tract infection, was reported in 7% of viloxazine-treated pediatric patients (6 to 17 years of age) during clinical trials. Fever was reported in 2% of treated pediatric patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pharyngitis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      sinusitis
      Severity
      Minor

Description
  Text
  Viloxazine is a selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor and partial serotonin 5-HT2C agonist indicated for the treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in adults and pediatric patients 6 to 17 years of age. The efficacy of viloxazine in pediatric patients 6 to 17 years was established in 3 short-term, randomized, placebo-controlled monotherapy trials (n = 1,100). In all 3 studies, the change from baseline (reduction) in ADHD Rating Scale (ADHD-RS-5) total score was statistically significantly greater in patients treated with viloxazine (100 to 400 mg once daily) versus with placebo. Efficacy in adult patients was established in a 6-week randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled flexible-dose study in patients 18 to 65 years old. In this trial, the change from baseline (reduction) in ADHD Investigator Symptom Rating Scale (AISRS) was statistically significantly greater in patients treated with viloxazine (200 to 600 mg once daily) versus placebo. There is a Boxed Warning regarding the risk of suicidal thoughts and behaviors during treatment in those receiving viloxazine compared to placebo, especially during the initial few months of drug therapy and at times of dosage changes. Closely monitor all patients receiving viloxazine for clinical worsening and emergence of suicidal thoughts and behaviors during therapy.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Viloxazine is a selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor and partial serotonin 5-HT2C agonist. The mechanism of action of viloxazine in the treatment of attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is unclear; however, it is thought to be through inhibiting the reuptake of norepinephrine.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    The relative bioavailability of viloxazine extended-release capsules relative to an immediate-release formulation was about 88%. The median (range) time to peak plasma concentration of viloxazine (Tmax) was approximately 5 hours (range: 3 to 9 hours) following a single 200 mg dose. The administration of 200 mg viloxazine extended-release capsules with a high-fat meal (800 to 1,000 calories) decreased viloxazine Cmax and AUC by approximately 9% and 8%, respectively. Viloxazine Tmax increased by approximately 2 hours after administration with a high-fat meal. Sprinkling the contents of a capsule on applesauce decreased viloxazine Cmax and AUC by approximately 10% and 5%, respectively. The product can be taken with or without food.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    The pharmacokinetics of viloxazine have not been evaluated in hepatic impairment; use in these patients is not recommended.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    The exposure of viloxazine increases in patients with renal impairment. In patients with severe renal impairment, the exposure of viloxazine was increased approximately 2-fold. Dosage adjustments are recommended in patients with an estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) less than 30 mL/minute/1.73 m2.
    Name
    Pediatrics
    Description
    The estimated steady-state Cmax and AUC of viloxazine and its major metabolite, at doses ranging from 200 mg to 400 mg, were approximately 130% to 250% higher in pediatric patients 6 to 11 years of age and 60% to 140% higher in pediatric patients 12 to 17 years of age compared to adult patients.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    No studies were conducted to evaluate the pharmacokinetics of viloxazine in the geriatric population.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of viloxazine were observed based on sex.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of viloxazine was observed based on race or ethnicity.
    Name
    Other
    Description
    CYP2D6 Poor Metabolizers (CYP2D6 PMs)
In a multiple-dose study in healthy volunteers with viloxazine 900 mg once daily, the steady-state viloxazine geometric means for Cmax and AUC0-24 were 21% and 26%, respectively, higher in CYP2D6 poor metabolizers compared with extensive metabolizers.
  Text
  Viloxazine is administered orally. It is 76% to 82% bound to human plasma proteins over the blood concentration range of 0.5 to 10 mcg/mL. The viloxazine Cmax and AUC increase proportionally over a dosage range from 100 mg to 600 mg once daily. Steady-state is reached after 2 days of once-daily administration, and no accumulation is observed. Viloxazine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6, UGT1A9, and UGT2B15. The major metabolite detected in plasma is 5-hydroxy-viloxazine glucuronide. Renal excretion is the primary route of excretion of viloxazine. After administration of radiolabeled viloxazine, 90% of the dose was recovered in urine within the first 24 hours post-dose; less than 1% of the dose was excreted in the feces. The mean (+/- SD) half-life of viloxazine was 7.02 +/- (4.74 hours).
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP1A2, CYP2D6, CYP3A4, CYP2B6, MATE1
Viloxazine is a strong inhibitor of CYP1A2 and a weak inhibitor of CYP2D6 and CYP3A4. Viloxazine is a reversible inhibitor of these enzymes and CYP2B6. Because of viloxazine's inhibition of CYP1A2, this drug is contraindicated in patients receiving concomitant administration of sensitive CYP1A2 substrates or CYP1A2 substrates with a narrow therapeutic range. Viloxazine is a potential inducer of CYP1A2 and CYP2B6. Viloxazine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6, UGT1A9, and UGT2B15. However, based on in vitro data, drugs that inhibit CYP2D6 are not expected to have a significant impact on the pharmacokinetics of viloxazine.
 
Based on in vitro data, drugs that inhibit CYP450 isozymes 1A2, 2B6, 2C8, 2C9, 2C19, 2E1, and 3A4 are not expected to have significant impact on the pharmacokinetic profile of viloxazine. Viloxazine does not inhibit CYP2C8, 2C9 or 2C19. Viloxazine appears to be a weak inhibitor of the MATE1 transporter. The drug is not an inhibitor of P-glycoprotein (P-gp), BCRP, MATE2-K, OATP1B1 1a, or OATP1B3 transporters. Viloxazine is not a substrate of either OATP1B1 1a or OATP1B3 transporters.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Extended-release capsules:
May administer with or without food.
Swallow whole. Do not cut, crush, or chew the capsules.
If swallowing is difficult, the capsule may be opened and the contents sprinkled over a teaspoon (5 mL) or a tablespoon (15 mL) of applesauce or pudding. The entire sprinkled food mixture should be consumed without chewing within 15 minutes from preparation for pudding or 2 hours for applesauce; do not store for future use.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    600 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    400 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    6 to 12 years: 400 mg/day PO.
1 to 5 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Viloxazine is not recommended in patients with hepatic impairment; the effect of hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of viloxazine is unknown.
  Renal Impairment
  eGFR 30 mL/minute/1.73 m2 or more: No dosage adjustment is necessary.
eGFR less than 30 mL/minute/1.73 m2: Initially, 100 mg PO once daily. May titrate dosage in weekly increments of 50 to 100 mg once daily, up to a maximum of 200 mg PO once daily.
