=== Sonidegib (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 4705)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Sonidegib is an oral hedgehog pathway inhibitor.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 200 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): muscle cramps, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, fetal death, infertility, teratogenesis

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. blood donor Patients must avoid being a blood donor during treatment with sonidegib and for at least 20 months following discontinuation of therapy due to the risk that this blood might... Emetic risk: Minimal/Low Hazardous drug: NIOSH 2024 List: Table 2

Brand Names
  - ODOMZO

Dosage Forms
  - Odomzo 200mg Capsule

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        200 mg PO once daily until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. Therapy interruption or discontinuation may be necessary in patients who develop severe musculoskeletal toxicity. At a median follow-up of 38.2 months, the objective response rate was 56.1% in patients with locally advanced basal cell carcinoma not amenable to radiotherapy or curative surgery (n = 66) who received sonidegib 200 mg/day in a randomized, double-blind, phase 2 trial (BOLT). The duration of response was 26.1 months, the median progression-free survival time was 22.1 months, and the median overall survival time had not been reached.
    Heading
    For the treatment of locally advanced basal cell carcinoma that has recurred following surgery or radiation therapy or in patients who are not candidates for surgery or radiation therapy

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    blood donor
    General Information
    Patients must avoid being a blood donor during treatment with sonidegib and for at least 20 months following discontinuation of therapy due to the risk that this blood might be administered to a pregnant individual whose fetus must not be exposed to sonidegib.
    Headline
    rhabdomyolysis
    General Information
    Use sonidegib with caution in patients with a history of rhabdomyolysis or myopathy. Musculoskeletal adverse reactions (e.g., muscle spasm, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia) have been reported with sonidegib therapy. Elevated serum creatine kinase (CK) levels frequently preceded symptoms; rhabdomyolysis has been reported rarely. Therapy interruption or discontinuation may be necessary in patients who develop musculoskeletal adverse reactions or elevated serum CK levels.
    Headline
    intrauterine fetal death, pregnancy
    General Information
    Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus. Report pregnancy to Sun Pharmaceutical Industries, Inc. at 1-800-406-7984. Based on its mechanism of action and data from animal studies, sonidegib can cause embryo/intrauterine fetal death or severe birth defects when administered to pregnant women; there are no available data on the use of sonidegib in pregnant women. In animal reproduction studies, sonidegib was embryotoxic, fetotoxic, and teratogenic at maternal exposures below the recommended human dose of 200 mg. Administration of sonidegib to pregnant rabbits resulted in abortion, complete resorption, or severe malformations (including midline defects, missing digits, vertebral, distal limb and digit malformations, severe craniofacial malformations, and other defects) at doses approximately 0.05-times the recommended human dose based on AUC. Skeletal variations were observed when maternal exposure to sonidegib was below the limit of detection.
    Headline
    contraception requirements, infertility, male-mediated teratogenicity, pregnancy testing, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel patients about the reproductive risk and contraception requirements during sonidegib treatment. Females should avoid pregnancy and use effective contraception during and for at least 20 months after treatment with sonidegib. Due to male-mediated teratogenicity, men with female partners should use condoms, even after a vasectomy, during treatment and for at least 8 months after the last dose; men should also not donate sperm for 8 months after the last dose of sonidegib. Females of reproductive potential should undergo pregnancy testing prior to initiation of sonidegib. Women who become pregnant while receiving sonidegib should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus. Sonidegib may cause infertility in female patients; amenorrhea was reported in pre-menopausal women in a clinical study that evaluated the use of sonidegib for the treatment of advanced basal cell carcinoma. In a study in female rats, sonidegib resulted in a reduced number of pregnancies, an increased number of early resorptions, and a decrease in the number of viable fetuses at exposures approximately 0.12 times the recommended human dose. Uterine and ovarian atrophy were observed in female rats at exposures >= 2 times the recommended human dose. No adverse effects on fertility were noted in male rats at exposures >= 4 times the recommended human dose.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Due to a potential for serious adverse reactions in breast fed infants, nursing women should not breast feed during sonidegib therapy or up to 20 months after the last sonidegib dose. The effects of sonidegib on breast fed infants or on milk production are unknown. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the risk of potential infant drug exposure, and the risk of an untreated or inadequately treated condition. If a breast-feeding infant experiences an adverse effect related to a maternally ingested drug, healthcare providers are encouraged to report the adverse effect to the FDA.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Counsel patients about the reproductive risk and contraception requirements during sonidegib treatment. Females should avoid pregnancy and use effective contraception during and for at least 20 months after treatment with sonidegib. Due to male-mediated teratogenicity, men with female partners should use condoms, even after a vasectomy, during treatment and for at least 8 months after the last dose; men should also not donate sperm for 8 months after the last dose of sonidegib. Females of reproductive potential should undergo pregnancy testing prior to initiation of sonidegib. Women who become pregnant while receiving sonidegib should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus. Sonidegib may cause infertility in female patients; amenorrhea was reported in pre-menopausal women in a clinical study that evaluated the use of sonidegib for the treatment of advanced basal cell carcinoma. In a study in female rats, sonidegib resulted in a reduced number of pregnancies, an increased number of early resorptions, and a decrease in the number of viable fetuses at exposures approximately 0.12 times the recommended human dose. Uterine and ovarian atrophy were observed in female rats at exposures >= 2 times the recommended human dose. No adverse effects on fertility were noted in male rats at exposures >= 4 times the recommended human dose.

Interactions
Adagrasib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sonidegib with adagrasib due to increased plasma concentrations of sonidegib which may increase the risk of treatment-related adverse reactions. Sonidegib is a CYP3A substrate and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sonidegib exposure by 2.2-fold.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and clarithromycin; sonidegib exposure may be significantly increased resulting in increased risk of adverse events, particularly musculoskeletal toxicity. Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; sonidegib is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the mean Cmax and AUC of sonidegib by 2.2-fold and 1.5-fold, respectively.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and apalutamide; sonidegib exposure may be significantly decreased and its efficacy reduced. Sonidegib is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the geometric mean Cmax and AUC of sonidegib by 54% and 72%, respectively.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and multi-day regimens of oral aprepitant; sonidegib levels may be significantly increased resulting in increased risk of adverse events, particularly musculoskeletal toxicity. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, the manufacturer of sonidegib recommends administering the moderate CYP3A inhibitor for less than 14 days and monitoring patients closely for adverse reactions (e.g., elevated serum creatine kinase and serum creatinine levels). Because aprepitant is used intermittently, the significance of this model is unknown. Sonidegib is a CYP3A4 substrate. Aprepitant, when administered as a 3-day oral regimen (125 mg/80 mg/80 mg), is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. When administered as a single oral or single intravenous dose, the inhibitory effect of aprepitant on CYP3A4 is weak and did not result in a clinically significant increase in the AUC of a sensitive substrate. Physiologic-based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations indicate a moderate 3A4 inhibitor would increase the sonidegib AUC by 1.8-fold if administered for 14 days and by 2.8-fold if the moderate CYP3A inhibitor is administered with sonidegib for more than 14 days.
Armodafinil: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and armodafinil; sonidegib levels may be significantly decreased and its efficacy reduced. Sonidegib is a CYP3A4 substrate and armodafinil is a CYP3A4 inducer. Physiologic-based pharmacokinetics (PBPK) simulations indicate that the sonidegib geometric mean steady-state AUC (0-24 hours) would decrease by 56% in cancer patients who received 14 days of sonidegib 200 mg/day with a moderate CYP3A inducer. Additionally, the PBPK model predicts that the sonidegib geometric mean steady-state AUC (0-24 hours) would decrease by 69% in cancer patients who received sonidegib 200 mg/day with a moderate CYP3A inducer for 4 months.
Atazanavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonidegib and atazanavir as increased sonidegib plasma are expected, resulting in an increased risk of adverse events, particularly musculoskeletal toxicity. Atazanavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and may significantly increase the level of the CYP3A4 substrate, sonidegib. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the mean Cmax and AUC of sonidegib by 2.2-fold and 1.5-fold, respectively.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonidegib and atazanavir as increased sonidegib plasma are expected, resulting in an increased risk of adverse events, particularly musculoskeletal toxicity. Atazanavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and may significantly increase the level of the CYP3A4 substrate, sonidegib. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the mean Cmax and AUC of sonidegib by 2.2-fold and 1.5-fold, respectively. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonidegib and cobicistat as increased sonidegib plasma are expected, resulting in an increased risk of adverse events, particularly musculoskeletal toxicity. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and may significantly increase the level of the CYP3A4 substrate, sonidegib. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the mean Cmax and AUC of sonidegib by 2.2-fold and 1.5-fold, respectively.
Avacopan: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and avacopan as concurrent use may increase sonidegib exposure. If concomitant use is necessary, administer avacopan for less than 14 days and monitor for an increased risk of sonidegib-related adverse events, particularly musculoskeletal toxicity. Sonidegib is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Physiologic-based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations indicate a moderate 3A inhibitor would increase the sonidegib AUC by 1.8-fold if administered for 14 days and by 2.8-fold if the moderate CYP3A inhibitor is administered with sonidegib for more than 14 days.
Berotralstat: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and berotralstat as concurrent use may increase sonidegib exposure. If concomitant use is necessary, administer berotralstat for less than 14 days and monitor for an increased risk of sonidegib-related adverse events, particularly musculoskeletal toxicity. Sonidegib is a CYP3A4 substrate and berotralstat is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Physiologic-based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations indicate a moderate 3A4 inhibitor would increase the sonidegib AUC by 1.8-fold if administered for 14 days and by 2.8-fold if the moderate CYP3A inhibitor is administered with sonidegib for more than 14 days.
Bexarotene: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and bexarotene; sonidegib levels may be significantly decreased and its efficacy reduced. Sonidegib is a CYP3A4 substrate and bexarotene is a CYP3A4 inducer. Physiologic-based pharmacokinetics (PBPK) simulations indicate that a moderate CYP3A4 inducer would decrease the sonidegib AUC by 56% if administered for 14 days and by 69% if the moderate CYP3A inducer is administered for more than 14 days.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and lenacapavir as concurrent use may increase sonidegib exposure. If concomitant use is necessary, administer lenacapavir for less than 14 days and monitor for an increased risk of sonidegib-related adverse events, particularly musculoskeletal toxicity. Sonidegib is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Physiologic-based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations indicate a moderate 3A inhibitor would increase the sonidegib AUC by 1.8-fold if administered for 14 days and by 2.8-fold if the moderate CYP3A inhibitor is administered with sonidegib for more than 14 days.
Bosentan: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and bosentan; sonidegib levels may be decreased and its efficacy reduced. Sonidegib is a CYP3A4 substrate and bosentan is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Physiologic-based pharmacokinetics (PBPK) simulations indicate that a moderate CYP3A4 inducer would decrease the sonidegib AUC by 56% if administered for 14 days and by 69% if the moderate CYP3A inducer is administered for more than 14 days.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and carbamazepine; sonidegib exposure may be significantly decreased and its efficacy reduced. Sonidegib is a CYP3A4 substrate and carbamazepine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the geometric mean Cmax and AUC of sonidegib by 54% and 72%, respectively.
Cenobamate: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and cenobamate; sonidegib exposure may be significantly decreased and its efficacy reduced. Sonidegib is a CYP3A4 substrate and cenobamate is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inducer for 14 days decreased the geometric mean AUC of sonidegib by 56%; coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inducer for 4 months decreased the sonidegib AUC by 69%.
Ceritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sonidegib with ceritinib due to increased plasma concentrations of sonidegib which may increase the risk of treatment-related adverse reactions. Sonidegib is a CYP3A4 substrate and ceritinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased sonidegib exposure by 2.2-fold.
Chloramphenicol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonidegib and chloramphenicol as increased sonidegib plasma are expected, resulting in an increased risk of adverse events, particularly musculoskeletal toxicity. Chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and may significantly increase the level of the CYP3A4 substrate, sonidegib. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the mean Cmax and AUC of sonidegib by 2.2-fold and 1.5-fold, respectively.
Cholera Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the live cholera vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to cholera bacteria after receiving the vaccine.
Cimetidine: (Moderate) Use sonidegib and cimetidine together with caution; sonidegib levels and/or exposure may be altered. Cimetidine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor and may increase the level of the CYP3A4 substrate, sonidegib, resulting in an increased risk of adverse events, particularly musculoskeletal toxicity. Based on population PK analysis, the concomitant administration of a histamine-2-receptor antagonist such as cimetidine decreases the geometric mean sonidegib steady-state AUC (0-24 hours) value by 34%.
Ciprofloxacin: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and ciprofloxacin; sonidegib exposure may be significantly increased resulting in increased risk of adverse events, particularly musculoskeletal toxicity. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, administer ciprofloxacin for less than 14 days; monitor patients closely for adverse reactions (e.g., elevated serum creatine kinase and serum creatinine levels). Sonidegib is a CYP3A substrate and ciprofloxacin is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Physiologic-based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations indicate a moderate 3A4 inhibitor would increase the sonidegib AUC by 1.8-fold if administered for 14 days and by 2.8-fold if the moderate CYP3A inhibitor is administered with sonidegib for more than 14 days.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and clarithromycin; sonidegib exposure may be significantly increased resulting in increased risk of adverse events, particularly musculoskeletal toxicity. Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; sonidegib is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the mean Cmax and AUC of sonidegib by 2.2-fold and 1.5-fold, respectively.
Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonidegib and cobicistat as increased sonidegib plasma are expected, resulting in an increased risk of adverse events, particularly musculoskeletal toxicity. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and may significantly increase the level of the CYP3A4 substrate, sonidegib. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the mean Cmax and AUC of sonidegib by 2.2-fold and 1.5-fold, respectively.
Conivaptan: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and conivaptan as concurrent use may increase sonidegib exposure. If concomitant use is necessary, administer conivaptan for less than 14 days and monitor for an increased risk of sonidegib-related adverse events, particularly musculoskeletal toxicity. Sonidegib is a CYP3A substrate and conivaptan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Physiologic-based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations indicate a moderate 3A inhibitor would increase sonidegib overall exposure by 1.8-fold if administered for 14 days and by 2.8-fold if the moderate CYP3A inhibitor is administered with sonidegib for more than 14 days.
Crizotinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sonidegib with crizotinib due to increased plasma concentrations of sonidegib, with may result in increased adverse reactions including musculoskeletal toxicity. Sonidegib is a CYP3A4 substrate and crizotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Physiologic-based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations indicate a moderate 3A4 inhibitor would increase the sonidegib AUC by 1.8-fold if administered for 14 days and by 2.8-fold if the moderate CYP3A inhibitor is administered with sonidegib for more than 14 days.
cycloSPORINE: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and cyclosporine; sonidegib exposure may be significantly increased resulting in increased risk of adverse events, particularly musculoskeletal toxicity. Sonidegib is a CYP3A substrate and cyclosporine is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Physiologic-based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations indicate a moderate 3A4 inhibitor would increase the sonidegib AUC by 1.8-fold if administered for 14 days and by 2.8-fold if the moderate CYP3A inhibitor is administered with sonidegib for more than 14 days.
Dabrafenib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and dabrafenib; sonidegib levels may be significantly decreased and its efficacy reduced. Sonidegib is a CYP3A4 substrate and dabrafenib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Physiologic-based pharmacokinetics (PBPK) simulations indicate that a moderate CYP3A4 inducer would decrease the sonidegib AUC by 56% if administered for 14 days and by 69% if the moderate CYP3A inducer is administered for more than 14 days.
Darunavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonidegib and darunavir as increased sonidegib plasma are expected, resulting in an increased risk of adverse events, particularly musculoskeletal toxicity. Darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and may significantly increase the level of the CYP3A4 substrate, sonidegib. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the mean Cmax and AUC of sonidegib by 2.2-fold and 1.5-fold, respectively.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonidegib and cobicistat as increased sonidegib plasma are expected, resulting in an increased risk of adverse events, particularly musculoskeletal toxicity. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and may significantly increase the level of the CYP3A4 substrate, sonidegib. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the mean Cmax and AUC of sonidegib by 2.2-fold and 1.5-fold, respectively. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonidegib and darunavir as increased sonidegib plasma are expected, resulting in an increased risk of adverse events, particularly musculoskeletal toxicity. Darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and may significantly increase the level of the CYP3A4 substrate, sonidegib. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the mean Cmax and AUC of sonidegib by 2.2-fold and 1.5-fold, respectively.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonidegib and cobicistat as increased sonidegib plasma are expected, resulting in an increased risk of adverse events, particularly musculoskeletal toxicity. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and may significantly increase the level of the CYP3A4 substrate, sonidegib. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the mean Cmax and AUC of sonidegib by 2.2-fold and 1.5-fold, respectively. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonidegib and darunavir as increased sonidegib plasma are expected, resulting in an increased risk of adverse events, particularly musculoskeletal toxicity. Darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and may significantly increase the level of the CYP3A4 substrate, sonidegib. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the mean Cmax and AUC of sonidegib by 2.2-fold and 1.5-fold, respectively.
Deferasirox: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and deferasirox; sonidegib levels may be significantly decreased and its efficacy reduced. Sonidegib is a CYP3A4 substrate deferasirox is a CYP3A4 inducer. Physiologic-based pharmacokinetics (PBPK) simulations indicate that the sonidegib geometric mean steady-state AUC (0-24 hours) would decrease by 56% in cancer patients who received 14 days of sonidegib 200 mg/day with a moderate CYP3A inducer. Additionally, the PBPK model predicts that the sonidegib geometric mean steady-state AUC (0-24 hours) would decrease by 69% in cancer patients who received sonidegib 200 mg/day with a moderate CYP3A inducer for 4 months.
Dengue Tetravalent Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of the live dengue virus vaccine with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
dilTIAZem: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and diltiazem; sonidegib exposure may be significantly increased resulting in increased risk of adverse events, particularly musculoskeletal toxicity. Sonidegib is a CYP3A substrate and diltiazem is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Physiologic-based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations indicate a moderate 3A4 inhibitor would increase the sonidegib AUC by 1.8-fold if administered for 14 days and by 2.8-fold if the moderate CYP3A inhibitor is administered with sonidegib for more than 14 days.
Dronedarone: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and dronedarone; sonidegib levels may be significantly increased resulting in increased risk of adverse events, particularly musculoskeletal toxicity. Sonidegib is a CYP3A4 substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Physiologic-based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations indicate a moderate 3A4 inhibitor would increase the sonidegib AUC by 1.8-fold if administered for 14 days and by 2.8-fold if the moderate CYP3A inhibitor is administered with sonidegib for more than 14 days.
Duvelisib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sonidegib with duvelisib due to increased plasma concentrations of sonidegib, with may result in increased adverse reactions including musculoskeletal toxicity. Sonidegib is a CYP3A4 substrate and duvelisib is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Physiologic-based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations indicate a moderate 3A4 inhibitor would increase the sonidegib AUC by 1.8-fold if administered for 14 days and by 2.8-fold if the moderate CYP3A inhibitor is administered with sonidegib for more than 14 days.
Efavirenz: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and efavirenz; sonidegib exposure may be significantly decreased and its efficacy reduced. Sonidegib is a CYP3A4 substrate and efavirenz is a CYP3A4 inducer. Physiologic-based pharmacokinetics (PBPK) simulations indicate that a moderate CYP3A4 inducer would decrease the sonidegib AUC by 56% if administered for 14 days and by 69% if the moderate CYP3A inducer is administered for more than 14 days.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and efavirenz; sonidegib exposure may be significantly decreased and its efficacy reduced. Sonidegib is a CYP3A4 substrate and efavirenz is a CYP3A4 inducer. Physiologic-based pharmacokinetics (PBPK) simulations indicate that a moderate CYP3A4 inducer would decrease the sonidegib AUC by 56% if administered for 14 days and by 69% if the moderate CYP3A inducer is administered for more than 14 days.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and efavirenz; sonidegib exposure may be significantly decreased and its efficacy reduced. Sonidegib is a CYP3A4 substrate and efavirenz is a CYP3A4 inducer. Physiologic-based pharmacokinetics (PBPK) simulations indicate that a moderate CYP3A4 inducer would decrease the sonidegib AUC by 56% if administered for 14 days and by 69% if the moderate CYP3A inducer is administered for more than 14 days.
Elagolix: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and elagolix; sonidegib exposure may be significantly decreased and its efficacy reduced. Sonidegib is a CYP3A substrate and elagolix is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Physiologic-based pharmacokinetics (PBPK) simulations indicate that a moderate CYP3A inducer would decrease the sonidegib AUC by 56% if administered for 14 days and by 69% if the moderate CYP3A inducer is administered for more than 14 days.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and elagolix; sonidegib exposure may be significantly decreased and its efficacy reduced. Sonidegib is a CYP3A substrate and elagolix is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Physiologic-based pharmacokinetics (PBPK) simulations indicate that a moderate CYP3A inducer would decrease the sonidegib AUC by 56% if administered for 14 days and by 69% if the moderate CYP3A inducer is administered for more than 14 days.
Elbasvir; Grazoprevir: (Moderate) Administering sonidegib with elbasvir; grazoprevir may result in elevated sonidegib plasma concentrations. Sonidegib is a substrate of CYP3A; grazoprevir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. If these drugs are used together, closely monitor for signs of adverse events.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonidegib and cobicistat as increased sonidegib plasma are expected, resulting in an increased risk of adverse events, particularly musculoskeletal toxicity. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and may significantly increase the level of the CYP3A4 substrate, sonidegib. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the mean Cmax and AUC of sonidegib by 2.2-fold and 1.5-fold, respectively.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonidegib and cobicistat as increased sonidegib plasma are expected, resulting in an increased risk of adverse events, particularly musculoskeletal toxicity. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and may significantly increase the level of the CYP3A4 substrate, sonidegib. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the mean Cmax and AUC of sonidegib by 2.2-fold and 1.5-fold, respectively.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and encorafenib; sonidegib exposure may be significantly decreased and its efficacy reduced. Sonidegib is a CYP3A substrate and encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A inducer decreased the geometric mean Cmax and AUC of sonidegib by 54% and 72%, respectively.
Ensitrelvir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sonidegib with ensitrelvir due to increased plasma concentrations of sonidegib which may increase the risk of treatment-related adverse reactions. Sonidegib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sonidegib exposure by 2.2-fold.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and enzalutamide; sonidegib exposure may be significantly decreased and its efficacy reduced. Sonidegib is a CYP3A4 substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the geometric mean Cmax and AUC of sonidegib by 54% and 72%, respectively.
Erythromycin: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and erythromycin; sonidegib exposure may be significantly increased resulting in increased risk of adverse events, particularly musculoskeletal toxicity. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, administer erythromycin for less than 14 days; monitor patients closely for adverse reactions (e.g., elevated serum creatine kinase and serum creatinine levels). Sonidegib is a CYP3A substrate and erythromycin is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Physiologic-based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations indicate a moderate 3A4 inhibitor would increase the sonidegib AUC by 1.8-fold if administered for 14 days and by 2.8-fold if the moderate CYP3A inhibitor is administered with sonidegib for more than 14 days.
Eslicarbazepine: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and eslicarbazepine; sonidegib levels may be significantly decreased and its efficacy reduced. Sonidegib is a CYP3A4 substrate and eslicarbazepine is a CYP3A4 inducer in vitro. Physiologic-based pharmacokinetics (PBPK) simulations indicate that a moderate CYP3A4 inducer would decrease the sonidegib AUC by 56% if administered for 14 days and by 69% if the moderate CYP3A inducer is administered for more than 14 days.
Etravirine: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and etravirine; sonidegib levels may be decreased and its efficacy reduced. Sonidegib is a CYP3A4 substrate and etravirine is a CYP3A4 inducer. Physiologic-based pharmacokinetics (PBPK) simulations indicate that a moderate CYP3A4 inducer would decrease the sonidegib AUC by 56% if administered for 14 days and by 69% if the moderate CYP3A inducer is administered for more than 14 days.
Fedratinib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and fedratinib; sonidegib levels may be significantly increased resulting in increased risk of adverse events, particularly musculoskeletal toxicity. Sonidegib is a CYP3A4 substrate and fedratinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Physiologic-based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations indicate a moderate 3A4 inhibitor would increase the sonidegib AUC by 1.8-fold if administered for 14 days and by 2.8-fold if the moderate CYP3A inhibitor is administered with sonidegib for more than 14 days.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and fexinidazole; sonidegib exposure may be significantly decreased and its efficacy reduced. Sonidegib is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Physiologic-based pharmacokinetics (PBPK) simulations indicate that a moderate CYP3A inducer would decrease the sonidegib AUC by 56% if administered for 14 days and by 69% if the moderate CYP3A inducer is administered for more than 14 days.
Fluconazole: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and fluconazole; sonidegib exposure may be significantly increased resulting in increased risk of adverse events, particularly musculoskeletal toxicity. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, administer fluconazole for less than 14 days; monitor patients closely for adverse reactions (e.g., elevated serum creatine kinase and serum creatinine levels). Sonidegib is a CYP3A4 substrate and fluconazole is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Physiologic-based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations indicate a moderate 3A4 inhibitor would increase the sonidegib AUC by 1.8-fold if administered for 14 days and by 2.8-fold if the moderate CYP3A inhibitor is administered with sonidegib for more than 14 days.
fluvoxaMINE: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and fluvoxamine; sonidegib exposure may be significantly increased resulting in increased risk of adverse events, particularly musculoskeletal toxicity. Sonidegib is a CYP3A substrate and fluvoxamine is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Physiologic-based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations indicate a moderate 3A4 inhibitor would increase the sonidegib AUC by 1.8-fold if administered for 14 days and by 2.8-fold if the moderate CYP3A inhibitor is administered with sonidegib for more than 14 days.
Fosamprenavir: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and fosamprenavir as concurrent use may increase sonidegib exposure. Sonidegib is a CYP3A substrate and fosamprenavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Physiologic-based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations indicate a moderate 3A inhibitor would increase the sonidegib AUC by 1.8-fold if administered for 14 days and by 2.8-fold if the moderate CYP3A inhibitor is administered with sonidegib for more than 14 days.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and fosphenytoin; sonidegib exposure may be significantly decreased and its efficacy reduced. Sonidegib is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the geometric mean Cmax and AUC of sonidegib by 54% and 72%, respectively.
Grapefruit juice: (Major) Advise patients to avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice during sonidegib treatment due to the risk for increased sonidegib exposure and adverse reactions. Sonidegib is a CYP3A substrate and grapefruit juice is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Idelalisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonidegib and idelalisib as increased sonidegib plasma are expected, resulting in an increased risk of adverse events, particularly musculoskeletal toxicity. Idelalisib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and may significantly increase the level of the CYP3A4 substrate, sonidegib. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the mean Cmax and AUC of sonidegib by 2.2-fold and 1.5-fold, respectively.
Imatinib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and imatinib, STI-571; sonidegib levels may be significantly increased resulting in increased risk of adverse events, particularly musculoskeletal toxicity. Sonidegib is a CYP3A4 substrate and imatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Physiologic-based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations indicate a moderate 3A4 inhibitor would increase the sonidegib AUC by 1.8-fold if administered for 14 days and by 2.8-fold if the moderate CYP3A inhibitor is administered with sonidegib for more than 14 days.
Isavuconazonium: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and isavuconazonium; sonidegib levels may be significantly increased resulting in increased risk of adverse events, particularly musculoskeletal toxicity. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, administer isavuconazonium for less than 14 days; monitor patients closely for adverse reactions (e.g., elevated serum creatine kinase and serum creatinine levels). Sonidegib is a CYP3A4 substrate and isavuconazonium is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Physiologic-based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations indicate a moderate 3A4 inhibitor would increase the sonidegib AUC by 1.8-fold if administered for 14 days and by 2.8-fold if the moderate CYP3A inhibitor is administered with sonidegib for more than 14 days.
Itraconazole: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and itraconazole; sonidegib exposure may be significantly increased resulting in an increased risk of adverse events, particularly musculoskeletal toxicity. Sonidegib is a CYP3A substrate and itraconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the mean Cmax and AUC of sonidegib by 2.2-fold and 1.5-fold, respectively.
Ketoconazole: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and ketoconazole; sonidegib exposure was significantly increased in healthy subjects who received ketoconazole and sonidegib compared with sonidegib only. This interaction may result in an increased risk of adverse events, particularly musculoskeletal toxicity. Sonidegib is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the mean Cmax and AUC of sonidegib by 2.2-fold and 1.5-fold, respectively.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and clarithromycin; sonidegib exposure may be significantly increased resulting in increased risk of adverse events, particularly musculoskeletal toxicity. Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; sonidegib is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the mean Cmax and AUC of sonidegib by 2.2-fold and 1.5-fold, respectively.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and oral lefamulin; sonidegib levels may be significantly increased resulting in increased risk of adverse events, particularly musculoskeletal toxicity. Sonidegib is a CYP3A4 substrate and oral lefamulin is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; an interaction is not expected with intravenous lefamulin. Physiologic-based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations indicate a moderate 3A4 inhibitor would increase the sonidegib AUC by 1.8-fold if administered for 14 days and by 2.8-fold if the moderate CYP3A inhibitor is administered with sonidegib for more than 14 days.
Lenacapavir: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and lenacapavir as concurrent use may increase sonidegib exposure. If concomitant use is necessary, administer lenacapavir for less than 14 days and monitor for an increased risk of sonidegib-related adverse events, particularly musculoskeletal toxicity. Sonidegib is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Physiologic-based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations indicate a moderate 3A inhibitor would increase the sonidegib AUC by 1.8-fold if administered for 14 days and by 2.8-fold if the moderate CYP3A inhibitor is administered with sonidegib for more than 14 days.
Letermovir: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of sonidegib with letermovir, as taking these drugs together may increase sonidegib concentration and risk for adverse events. The magnitude of this interaction may be increased in patients who are also receiving cyclosporine. Sonidegib is a substrate of CYP3A4. Letermovir is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. The combined effect of letermovir and cyclosporine on CYP3A4 substrates may be similar to a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Physiologic-based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations indicate a moderate 3A4 inhibitor would increase the sonidegib AUC by 1.8-fold if administered for 14 days and by 2.8-fold if the moderate CYP3A inhibitor is administered with sonidegib for more than 14 days. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the mean Cmax and AUC of sonidegib by 2.2-fold and 1.5-fold, respectively.
Levoketoconazole: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and ketoconazole; sonidegib exposure was significantly increased in healthy subjects who received ketoconazole and sonidegib compared with sonidegib only. This interaction may result in an increased risk of adverse events, particularly musculoskeletal toxicity. Sonidegib is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the mean Cmax and AUC of sonidegib by 2.2-fold and 1.5-fold, respectively.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sonidegib with lonafarnib due to increased plasma concentrations of sonidegib which may increase the risk of treatment-related adverse reactions. Sonidegib is a CYP3A4 substrate and lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased sonidegib exposure by 2.2-fold.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sonidegib with ritonavir due to increased plasma concentrations of sonidegib which may increase the risk of treatment-related adverse reactions. Sonidegib is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sonidegib exposure by 2.2-fold.
Lorlatinib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and lorlatinib; sonidegib exposure may be significantly decreased and its efficacy reduced. Sonidegib is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inducer for 14 days decreased the geometric mean AUC of sonidegib by 56%; coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inducer for 4 months decreased the sonidegib AUC by 69%.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and lumacaftor; ivacaftor; sonidegib exposure may be significantly decreased and its efficacy reduced. Sonidegib is a CYP3A4 substrate and lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the geometric mean Cmax and AUC of sonidegib by 54% and 72%, respectively.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and lumacaftor; ivacaftor; sonidegib exposure may be significantly decreased and its efficacy reduced. Sonidegib is a CYP3A4 substrate and lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the geometric mean Cmax and AUC of sonidegib by 54% and 72%, respectively.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonidegib and chronic use of mifepristone as increased sonidegib plasma are expected, resulting in an increased risk of adverse events, particularly musculoskeletal toxicity. The clinical significance of this interaction with the short-term use of mifepristone for termination of pregnancy is unknown. Mifepristone is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and may significantly increase the level of the CYP3A4 substrate, sonidegib. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the mean Cmax and AUC of sonidegib by 2.2-fold and 1.5-fold, respectively.
Mitotane: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of mitotane with sonidegib due to decreased sonidegib exposure and possible decreases in efficacy. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and sonidegib is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of sonidegib. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the geometric mean Cmax and AUC of sonidegib by 54% and 72%, respectively.
Modafinil: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and modafinil; sonidegib exposure may be significantly decreased and its efficacy reduced. Sonidegib is a CYP3A4 substrate and modafinil is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Physiologic-based pharmacokinetics (PBPK) simulations indicate that the coadministration of a moderate CYP3A4 inducer for 14 days would decrease the sonidegib AUC by 56% and by 69% if the moderate CYP3A inducer is coadministered for 4 months.
Nafcillin: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and nafcillin; sonidegib levels may be significantly decreased and its efficacy reduced. Sonidegib is a CYP3A4 substrate and nafcillin is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer in vitro. Physiologic-based pharmacokinetics (PBPK) simulations indicate that a moderate CYP3A4 inducer would decrease the sonidegib AUC by 56% if administered for 14 days and by 69% if the moderate CYP3A inducer is administered for more than 14 days.
Nefazodone: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and nefazodone; sonidegib exposure may be significantly increased resulting in an increased risk of adverse events, particularly musculoskeletal toxicity. Sonidegib is a CYP3A substrate and nefazodone is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the mean Cmax and AUC of sonidegib by 2.2-fold and 1.5-fold, respectively.
Nelfinavir: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and nelfinavir; sonidegib levels may be significantly increased resulting in an increased risk of adverse events, particularly musculoskeletal toxicity. Sonidegib is a CYP3A4 substrate and nelfinavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the mean Cmax and AUC of sonidegib by 2.2-fold and 1.5-fold, respectively.
Netupitant, Fosnetupitant; Palonosetron: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and netupitant; palonosetron as sonidegib levels may be significantly increased resulting in increased risk of adverse events, particularly musculoskeletal toxicity. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, administer netupitant; palonosetron for less than 14 days; monitor patients closely for adverse reactions (e.g., elevated serum creatine kinase and serum creatinine levels). Sonidegib is a CYP3A4 substrate and netupitant is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Physiologic-based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations indicate a moderate 3A4 inhibitor would increase the sonidegib AUC by 1.8-fold if administered for 14 days and by 2.8-fold if the moderate CYP3A inhibitor is administered with sonidegib for more than 14 days.
Nilotinib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and nilotinib; sonidegib exposure may be significantly increased resulting in increased risk of adverse events, particularly musculoskeletal toxicity. Sonidegib is a CYP3A substrate and nilotinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Physiologic-based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations indicate a moderate 3A4 inhibitor would increase the sonidegib AUC by 1.8-fold if administered for 14 days and by 2.8-fold if the moderate CYP3A inhibitor is administered with sonidegib for more than 14 days.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sonidegib with ritonavir due to increased plasma concentrations of sonidegib which may increase the risk of treatment-related adverse reactions. Sonidegib is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sonidegib exposure by 2.2-fold.
Nirogacestat: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and nirogacestat as concurrent use may increase sonidegib exposure. If concomitant use is necessary, administer nirogacestat for less than 14 days and monitor for an increased risk of sonidegib-related adverse events, particularly musculoskeletal toxicity. Sonidegib is a CYP3A substrate and nirogacestat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Physiologic-based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations indicate a moderate 3A inhibitor would increase the sonidegib AUC by 1.8-fold if administered for 14 days and by 2.8-fold if the moderate CYP3A inhibitor is administered with sonidegib for more than 14 days.
Nizatidine: (Moderate) Based on population PK analysis, the concomitant administration of a histamine-2-receptor antagonist such as nizatidine decreases the geometric mean sonidegib steady-state AUC (0-24 hours) value by 34%.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and rifabutin; sonidegib exposure may be significantly decreased and its efficacy reduced. Sonidegib is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Physiologic-based pharmacokinetics (PBPK) simulations indicate that a moderate CYP3A4 inducer would decrease the sonidegib AUC by 56% if administered for 14 days and by 69% if the moderate CYP3A inducer is administered for more than 14 days.
Oritavancin: (Moderate) Use caution with the concomitant use of sonidegib and oritavancin; sonidegib levels may be decreased and its efficacy reduced. Sonidegib is a CYP3A4 substrate and oritavancin is a weak CYP3A4 inducer. Physiologic-based pharmacokinetics (PBPK) simulations indicate that the sonidegib geometric mean steady-state AUC (0-24 hours) would decrease by 56% in cancer patients who received 14 days of sonidegib 200 mg/day with a moderate CYP3A inducer. Additionally, the PBPK model predicts that the sonidegib geometric mean steady-state AUC (0-24 hours) would decrease by 69% in cancer patients who received sonidegib 200 mg/day with a moderate CYP3A inducer for 4 months.
Pacritinib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and pacritinib; sonidegib exposure may be significantly decreased and its efficacy reduced. Sonidegib is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Physiologic-based pharmacokinetics (PBPK) simulations indicate that a moderate CYP3A inducer would decrease the sonidegib AUC by 56% if administered for 14 days and by 69% if the moderate CYP3A inducer is administered for more than 14 days.
Pexidartinib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and pexidartinib; sonidegib exposure may be significantly decreased and its efficacy reduced. Sonidegib is a CYP3A4 substrate and pexidartinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Physiologic-based pharmacokinetics (PBPK) simulations indicate that a moderate CYP3A4 inducer would decrease the sonidegib AUC by 56% if administered for 14 days and by 69% if the moderate CYP3A inducer is administered for more than 14 days.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and phenobarbital; sonidegib exposure may be significantly decreased and its efficacy reduced. Sonidegib is a CYP3A4 substrate and phenobarbital is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the geometric mean Cmax and AUC of sonidegib by 54% and 72%, respectively.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and phenobarbital; sonidegib exposure may be significantly decreased and its efficacy reduced. Sonidegib is a CYP3A4 substrate and phenobarbital is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the geometric mean Cmax and AUC of sonidegib by 54% and 72%, respectively.
Phenytoin: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and phenytoin; sonidegib exposure may be significantly decreased and its efficacy reduced. Sonidegib is a CYP3A4 substrate and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the geometric mean Cmax and AUC of sonidegib by 54% and 72%, respectively.
Posaconazole: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and posaconazole; sonidegib exposure may be significantly increased resulting in an increased risk of adverse events, particularly musculoskeletal toxicity. Sonidegib is a CYP3A substrate and posaconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the mean Cmax and AUC of sonidegib by 2.2-fold and 1.5-fold, respectively.
Primidone: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and primidone; sonidegib levels may be decreased and its efficacy reduced. Sonidegib is a CYP3A4 substrate and primidone is a CYP3A4 inducer. Primidone is metabolized to phenobarbital, a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the geometric mean Cmax and AUC of sonidegib by 54% and 72%, respectively.
quiNINE: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and quinine; sonidegib exposure may be significantly increased resulting in increased risk of adverse events, particularly musculoskeletal toxicity. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, administer quinine for less than 14 days; monitor patients closely for adverse reactions (e.g., elevated serum creatine kinase and serum creatinine levels). Sonidegib is a CYP3A substrate and quinine is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Physiologic-based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations indicate a moderate 3A4 inhibitor would increase the sonidegib AUC by 1.8-fold if administered for 14 days and by 2.8-fold if the moderate CYP3A inhibitor is administered with sonidegib for more than 14 days.
Relacorilant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sonidegib with relacorilant due to increased plasma concentrations of sonidegib which may increase the risk of treatment-related adverse reactions. Sonidegib is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sonidegib exposure by 2.2-fold.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and repotrectinib; sonidegib exposure may be significantly decreased and its efficacy reduced. Sonidegib is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Physiologic-based pharmacokinetics (PBPK) simulations indicate that a moderate CYP3A inducer would decrease the sonidegib AUC by 56% if administered for 14 days and by 69% if the moderate CYP3A inducer is administered for more than 14 days.
Ribociclib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sonidegib with ribociclib due to increased plasma concentrations of sonidegib which may increase the risk of treatment-related adverse reactions. Sonidegib is a CYP3A4 substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased sonidegib exposure by 2.2-fold.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sonidegib with ribociclib due to increased plasma concentrations of sonidegib which may increase the risk of treatment-related adverse reactions. Sonidegib is a CYP3A4 substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased sonidegib exposure by 2.2-fold.
Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and rifabutin; sonidegib exposure may be significantly decreased and its efficacy reduced. Sonidegib is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Physiologic-based pharmacokinetics (PBPK) simulations indicate that a moderate CYP3A4 inducer would decrease the sonidegib AUC by 56% if administered for 14 days and by 69% if the moderate CYP3A inducer is administered for more than 14 days.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and rifampin; sonidegib exposure was significantly decreased in healthy subjects who received rifampin and sonidegib compared with sonidegib only. Therefore, the efficacy of sonidegib may be reduced if these agents are administered together. Sonidegib is a CYP3A substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. The sonidegib geometric mean Cmax and AUC were decreased by 54% and 72%, respectively when coadministered with rifampin in a drug interaction study.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and rifapentine; sonidegib exposure may be significantly decreased and its efficacy reduced. Sonidegib is a CYP3A substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the geometric mean Cmax and AUC of sonidegib by 54% and 72%, respectively.
Rilzabrutinib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and rilzabrutinib as concurrent use may increase sonidegib exposure and increase the risk for sonidegib-related adverse events, particularly musculoskeletal toxicity. Sonidegib is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Physiologic-based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations indicate a moderate 3A inhibitor would increase the sonidegib AUC by 1.8-fold if administered for 14 days and by 2.8-fold if the moderate CYP3A inhibitor is administered with sonidegib for more than 14 days.
Ritlecitinib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and ritlecitinib as concurrent use may increase sonidegib exposure. If concomitant use is necessary, administer ritlecitinib for less than 14 days and monitor for an increased risk of sonidegib-related adverse events, particularly musculoskeletal toxicity. Sonidegib is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Physiologic-based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations indicate a moderate 3A inhibitor would increase the sonidegib AUC by 1.8-fold if administered for 14 days and by 2.8-fold if the moderate CYP3A inhibitor is administered with sonidegib for more than 14 days.
Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sonidegib with ritonavir due to increased plasma concentrations of sonidegib which may increase the risk of treatment-related adverse reactions. Sonidegib is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sonidegib exposure by 2.2-fold.
Saquinavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sonidegib with saquinavir due to increased plasma concentrations of sonidegib which may increase the risk of treatment-related adverse reactions. Sonidegib is a CYP3A substrate and saquinavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sonidegib exposure by 2.2-fold.
SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) vaccines: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) mRNA Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) Recombinant Spike Protein Nanoparticle Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
Sotorasib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and sotorasib; sonidegib exposure may be significantly decreased and its efficacy reduced. Sonidegib is a CYP3A4 substrate and sotorasib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Physiologic-based pharmacokinetics (PBPK) simulations indicate that a moderate CYP3A4 inducer would decrease the sonidegib AUC by 56% if administered for 14 days and by 69% if the moderate CYP3A inducer is administered for more than 14 days.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and St. John's Wort; sonidegib exposure may be significantly decreased and its efficacy reduced. Sonidegib is a CYP3A substrate and St. John's Wort is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the geometric mean Cmax and AUC of sonidegib by 54% and 72%, respectively.
Tipranavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonidegib and tipranavir as increased sonidegib plasma are expected, resulting in an increased risk of adverse events, particularly musculoskeletal toxicity. Tipranavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and may significantly increase the level of the CYP3A4 substrate, sonidegib. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the mean Cmax and AUC of sonidegib by 2.2-fold and 1.5-fold, respectively.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and verapamil as sonidegib levels may be significantly increased resulting in increased risk of adverse events, particularly musculoskeletal toxicity. Sonidegib is a CYP3A4 substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Physiologic-based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations indicate a moderate 3A4 inhibitor would increase the sonidegib AUC by 1.8-fold if administered for 14 days and by 2.8-fold if the moderate CYP3A inhibitor is administered with sonidegib for more than 14 days.
Tucatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sonidegib with tucatinib due to increased plasma concentrations of sonidegib which may increase the risk of treatment-related adverse reactions. Sonidegib is a CYP3A4 substrate and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased sonidegib exposure by 2.2-fold.
Verapamil: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and verapamil as sonidegib levels may be significantly increased resulting in increased risk of adverse events, particularly musculoskeletal toxicity. Sonidegib is a CYP3A4 substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Physiologic-based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations indicate a moderate 3A4 inhibitor would increase the sonidegib AUC by 1.8-fold if administered for 14 days and by 2.8-fold if the moderate CYP3A inhibitor is administered with sonidegib for more than 14 days.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and clarithromycin; sonidegib exposure may be significantly increased resulting in increased risk of adverse events, particularly musculoskeletal toxicity. Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; sonidegib is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the mean Cmax and AUC of sonidegib by 2.2-fold and 1.5-fold, respectively.
Voriconazole: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and voriconazole; sonidegib exposure may be significantly increased resulting in an increased risk of adverse events, particularly musculoskeletal toxicity. Sonidegib is a CYP3A4 substrate and voriconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the mean Cmax and AUC of sonidegib by 2.2-fold and 1.5-fold, respectively.
Voxelotor: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and voxelotor as concurrent use may increase sonidegib exposure. If concomitant use is necessary, administer voxelotor for less than 14 days and monitor for an increased risk of sonidegib-related adverse events, particularly musculoskeletal toxicity. Sonidegib is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Physiologic-based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations indicate a moderate 3A inhibitor would increase the sonidegib AUC by 1.8-fold if administered for 14 days and by 2.8-fold if the moderate CYP3A inhibitor is administered with sonidegib for more than 14 days.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    muscle cramps, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia
    General Information
    Musculoskeletal adverse events occurred in 68% (grade 3 or 4, 9%) of patients with locally advanced or metastatic basal cell carcinoma who received oral sonidegib 200 mg/day (n = 79) in a phase 2 trial. Rhabdomyolysis (defined as a serum creatine kinase [CK] increase of more than 10 times the baseline value with a serum creatinine [SCr] level increase by 1.5-fold or greater the baseline value) was reported in 1 patient (0.2%) in a pooled safety analysis of 12 studies (n = 571) evaluating sonidegib doses of 100 mg to 3,000 mg; this patient had received sonidegib 800 mg. Monitor serum CK and SCr levels at least weekly in patients with musculoskeletal adverse reactions and an elevated CK level greater than 2.5 times upper limit of normal until clinical signs and symptoms resolve. Therapy interruption or discontinuation may be necessary in patients who develop musculoskeletal adverse reactions or elevated serum CK levels. Medical management of musculoskeletal toxicity has included IV hydration, magnesium supplementation, muscle relaxants, and analgesics or narcotics. In the phase 2 trial, musculoskeletal adverse events included muscle cramps/spasms (54%; grade 3, 3%), musculoskeletal pain (32%; grade 3, 1%), pain (14%; grade 3, 1%), and myalgia (19%). Elevated serum CK levels frequently precede symptoms. Elevated serum CK levels (61%; grade 3 or 4, 8%) and SCr levels (92%) were also reported; however, the SCr level was within the normal range in most patients (76%). The median time to onset of grade 2 or higher serum CK levels was 12.9 weeks and the median time to resolution (grade 1 or less) was 12 days.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      myalgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      musculoskeletal pain
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      muscle cramps
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    alopecia, pruritus
    General Information
    Alopecia (53%) and pruritus (10%) were reported in patients with locally advanced or metastatic basal cell carcinoma who received oral sonidegib 200 mg/day (n = 79) in a clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      alopecia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    headache
    General Information
    Headache occurred in 15% (grade 3, 1%) of patients with locally advanced or metastatic basal cell carcinoma who received oral sonidegib 200 mg/day (n = 79) in a clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    abdominal pain, anorexia, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting
    General Information
    Gastrointestinal symptoms including abdominal pain (18%), anorexia/decreased appetite (23%; grade 3, 1%), diarrhea (32%; grade 3, 1%), nausea (39%; grade 3, 1%), and vomiting (11%; grade 3, 1%) were reported in patients with locally advanced or metastatic basal cell carcinoma who received oral sonidegib 200 mg/day (n = 79) in a clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    dysgeusia
    General Information
    Dysgeusia occurred in 46% of patients with locally advanced or metastatic basal cell carcinoma who received oral sonidegib 200 mg/day (n = 79) in a clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dysgeusia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    weight loss
    General Information
    Weight loss/decreased weight occurred in 30% (grade 3, 3%) of patients with locally advanced or metastatic basal cell carcinoma who received oral sonidegib 200 mg/day (n = 79) in a clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      weight loss
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    fatigue
    General Information
    Fatigue occurred in 41% (grade 3, 4%) of patients with locally advanced or metastatic basal cell carcinoma who received oral sonidegib 200 mg/day (n = 79) in a clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anemia, lymphopenia
    General Information
    Anemia (32%) and lymphopenia (28%; grade 3 or 4, 3%) were reported in patients with locally advanced or metastatic basal cell carcinoma who received oral sonidegib 200 mg/day (n = 79) in a clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      lymphopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes
    General Information
    Elevated hepatic enzymes including increased ALT (19%; grade 3 or 4, 4%) and AST (19%; grade 3 or 4, 4%) levels were reported in patients with locally advanced or metastatic basal cell carcinoma who received oral sonidegib 200 mg/day (n = 79) in a clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hyperamylasemia
    General Information
    Elevated lipase level (43%; grade 3 or 4, 13%) and hyperamylasemia (16%; grade 3 or 4, 1%) were reported in patients with locally advanced or metastatic basal cell carcinoma who received oral sonidegib 200 mg/day (n = 79) in a clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperamylasemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hyperglycemia
    General Information
    Hyperglycemia occurred in 51% (grade 3 or 4, 4%) of patients with locally advanced or metastatic basal cell carcinoma who received oral sonidegib 200 mg/day (n = 79) in a clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperglycemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    fetal death, infertility, teratogenesis
    General Information
    Embryo-fetal death or severe birth defects/teratogenesis may occur if sonidegib is administered in a pregnant woman. Based on animal studies, sonidegib may cause female infertility.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      fetal death
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      infertility
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      teratogenesis
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    amenorrhea
    General Information
    Amenorrhea lasting for at least 18 months occurred in 14% of premenopausal patients (n = 14) who received oral sonidegib 200 mg or 800 mg once daily in a clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      amenorrhea
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    growth inhibition
    General Information
    Growth inhibition due to premature fusion of the epiphyses has been reported in pediatric patients who received sonidegib. Some cases of progressive fusion of the epiphyses occurred after other hedgehog pathway inhibitors were discontinued.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      growth inhibition
      Severity
      Moderate

Description
  Text
  Sonidegib is an oral hedgehog pathway inhibitor. It is indicated for the treatment of adults with locally advanced basal cell carcinoma that has recurred following surgery or radiation therapy, or those who are not candidates for surgery or radiation therapy. Sonidegib may cause embryo-fetal death or severe birth defects when administered during pregnancy. Sonidegib was approved by the FDA in July 2015.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Sonidegib is a hedgehog signaling pathway inhibitor. It works by binding to and inhibiting the transmembrane protein smoothened (SMO) that is necessary for Hh signal transduction. Dysregulation of the Hh signaling pathway is associated with basal cell carcinoma (BCC) development; mutations in transmembrane protein receptors that result in SMO activation are common in BCC.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Sonidegib has low oral bioavailability; less than 10% of the oral dose is absorbed. Following a single sonidegib oral dose of 100 mg to 3,000 mg (under fasted conditions), the median time to peak plasma concentration (Tmax) was 2 to 4 hours in a pharmacokinetic analysis in patients with cancer. The mean steady-state Cmax was 1,030 nanog/mL, Cmin was 890 nanog/mL, and AUC(0-24hours) value was 22,000 nanog x hour/mL following sonidegib 200 mg/day orally. At a dose range of 100 mg to 400 mg, dose-proportional increases in the Cmax and AUC were observed; however, less than dose-proportional increases occurred at sonidegib doses greater than 400 mg. After starting sonidegib therapy, steady-state levels are achieved at about 4 months; the estimated steady-state accumulation is 19-fold.
Effects of food: When sonidegib was administered with a high-fat meal (i.e., 1,000 calories with 50% of calories from fat), the geometric mean Cmax and AUC(0-inf) values were increased by 7.8- and 7.4-fold, respectively, compared with sonidegib given under fasting conditions. Sonidegib should be administered on an empty stomach.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Mild (Child-Pugh class A), moderate (Child-Pugh class B), or severe (Child-Pugh class C) hepatic impairment had no clinically significant meaningful effect on the steady-state exposure of sonidegib.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Mild to moderate (CrCl, 30 to 89 mL/min) renal impairment had no clinically meaningful effect on the steady-state exposure of sonidegib.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Age had no clinically meaningful effect on the steady-state exposure of sonidegib.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    Gender had no clinically meaningful effect on the steady-state exposure of sonidegib.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    In a cross study comparison, the sonidegib geometric mean AUC(0-inf) was 1.7-fold higher in Japanese healthy subjects compared with Western healthy subjects (White and Black subjects) following a single 200 mg dose of sonidegib.
    Name
    Obesity
    Description
    Weight had no clinically meaningful effect on the steady-state exposure of sonidegib.
  Text
  Sonidegib is administered orally. It has an apparent volume of distribution of 9,166 liters and is highly bound to plasma protein (greater than 97%); it exhibits concentration independent protein binding. Sonidegib is primarily metabolized in the liver by the CYP450 isoenzyme, CYP3A; 36% of the total circulating components are the parent drug. The primary route of elimination for sonidegib and its metabolites is hepatic with about 70% and 30% of the absorbed dose recovered in the feces and urine, respectively. No unchanged sonidegib was detected in urine. The estimated elimination half-life is 28 days based on population pharmacokinetic modeling.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A
Sonidegib is a CYP3A substrate. The concomitant use with strong or moderate CYP3A inhibitors or inducers should be avoided. In vitro, sonidegib inhibits CYP2B6 and CYP2C9 and is not an inducer of CYP1A2, CYP2B6 or CYP3A. Sonidegib inhibits the breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) transporter in vitro; it does not inhibit P-glycoprotein, MRP2, OATP1B1, OATP1B3, OAT1, OAT3, OCT1 or OCT2.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
Hazardous Drugs Classification
NIOSH 2024 List: Table 2
Observe and exercise appropriate precautions for handling, preparation, administration, and disposal of hazardous drugs.
Use gloves to handle; double chemotherapy gloves and a protective gown are needed if manipulation is necessary. Cutting, crushing, or otherwise manipulating tablets/capsules will increase exposure.
Emetic Risk
Minimal/Low
Administer prn antiemetics as necessary.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Sonidegib should be taken on an empty stomach at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after a meal.
Swallow whole; do not crush or cut capsules.
If a dose is missed, skip the dose and take the dose the next day at the scheduled time.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    200 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    200 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy not established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy not established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy not established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
