=== Formoterol (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 2544)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Formoterol is an inhaled long-acting beta-2 receptor agonist (LABA).

Routes: inhalation; Common adult doses: 40 mcg/day via nebulizer.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): angina, atrial fibrillation, chest pain (unspecified), hypertension, palpitations, qt prolongation, sinus tachycardia, supraventricular tachycardia (svt), ventricular tachycardia, dizziness, dysphonia, fatigue, headache, hoarseness, insomnia, malaise, muscle cramps, tremor, anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, photosensitivity, pruritus, rash (unspecified), urticaria, bronchial secretions, bronchospasm, dyspnea, fever, infection, pharyngitis

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Carefully instruct patients on appropriate use of the Foradil Aerolizer; there have been reports of patients swallowing the capsules, rather than placing the capsule in the inhaler-device for administration. Like other inhaled beta-agonists, formoterol can produce paradoxical bronchospasm, which...

Brand Names
  - Foradil
  - Perforomist

Dosage Forms
  - Formoterol Fumarate 20mcg/2mL Nebulizer solution
  - Formoterol Fumarate Bulk powder
  - Perforomist 20mcg/2mL Solution for Inhalation

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Respiratory (Inhalation) dosage (inhalation solution)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        20 mcg inhaled by nebulizer twice daily. Max: 40 mcg/day.
    Heading
    For the maintenance treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) (e.g., chronic bronchitis or emphysema)

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Carefully instruct patients on appropriate use of the Foradil Aerolizer; there have been reports of patients swallowing the capsules, rather than placing the capsule in the inhaler-device for administration.
 
Like other inhaled beta-agonists, formoterol can produce paradoxical bronchospasm, which may be life threatening. If paradoxical bronchospasm occurs, formoterol should be discontinued immediately and alternative therapy instituted.
 
Due to its relatively prolonged onset of action, formoterol should not be used to treat acute bronchospasm, acute asthma attack, status asthmaticus, or acute respiratory insufficiency; formoterol aerosol is only indicated for asthma prophylaxis. The safety and effectiveness of formoterol solution for nebulization has not been studied in patients with acutely deteriorating COPD; the drug is indicated for maintenance treatment only. It is crucial to inform patients of this and prescribe an inhaled, short-acting beta-agonist, such as albuterol, for rescue treatment of an acute asthma attack or acutely deteriorating COPD as well as to warn them that increasing inhaled short-acting beta-agonist use is a signal of deteriorating disease. Additionally, long-acting beta-agonists, such as formoterol, have been associated with an increased risk of severe asthma exacerbations and asthma-related death. It is unknown if the rate of death increases with the use of long-acting beta agonists in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). If wheezing worsens and cannot be relieved during an acute asthma attack, patients should be instructed to seek immediate medical attention. On December 11, 2008, an FDA Advisory Panel recommended against using single-ingredient long-acting beta agonists (LABAs), (i.e., salmeterol , formoterol), for asthma in all age groups in response to a meta-analysis finding that monotherapy with LABAs increases the risk of asthma-related events (i.e., asthma-related hospitalization, asthma-related intubation, and asthma-related death). However, the Advisory Panel recommended combination products containing a LABA with an inhaled steroid (i.e., Advair, Symbicort) can retain current indications including asthma, as an increased risk of asthma-related complications was not demonstrated with this combination. The meta-analysis did not examine COPD-related risk; single ingredient LABAs can continue to be marketed for COPD, if already marketed as such. The FDA has not yet taken action on the panel's recommendation. Formoterol should not be the first drug used to treat asthma and should only be added to the asthma treatment regimen if other drugs (including low- or medium-dose corticosteroids) do not control asthma. Recommended dosages should not be exceeded due to an increased risk of severe asthma exacerbations. In addition, excessive use has been associated with fatalities, possibly resulting from cardiac arrest subsequent to severe acute asthmatic events and hypoxia. Although not established in regard to use with formoterol, data from a large placebo-controlled trial (the Salmeterol Multi-center Asthma Research Trial, a.k.a. SMART) that compared the safety of salmeterol to placebo, in combination with usual asthma therapy, showed a small but significant increase in asthma-related deaths in patients receiving salmeterol (13 deaths out of 13,176 patients treated for 28 weeks) versus those receiving placebo (3 of 13,179); subgroup analyses suggest the risk may be greater in African-American patients (Black patients) compared to Caucasians (relative risk of asthma-related deaths were 7.26, 95% CI 0.89—58.94 in African Americans and 5.82, 95% CI 0.7—48.37 in Caucasians). Two smaller controlled trials (combined enrollment 1095 patients) comparing formoterol 12 mcg twice daily, formoterol 24 mcg twice daily, albuterol 180 mcg four times daily, and placebo, suggested an increased frequency of serious asthma exacerbations for formoterol compared to albuterol and placebo, particularly the formoterol 24 mcg group. A 16 week controlled parallel trial of 1568 patients showed a frequency of serious asthma exacerbations of 0.6% (3/527) in the formoterol 12 mcg group, 0.4% (2/527) in the formoterol 24 mcg group, and 0.2% (1/514) in the placebo group. Formoterol should not be initiated in patients with significantly worsening or acutely deteriorating asthma, which may be a life-threatening condition. Formoterol is not a substitute for inhaled or oral corticosteroid therapy; corticosteroids should not be stopped or reduced when formoterol is initiated. Subsequent changes to any pre-existing corticosteroid regimen, such as a dose reduction, should only be made following a thorough clinical evaluation. When initiating treatment with formoterol, regular use of inhaled, short-acting beta-2 agonists should be discontinued, but remain accessible on an as needed basis.
 
Formoterol should be used with caution in patients with cardiovascular disorders including ischemic cardiac disease (coronary artery disease), hypertension, cardiac arrhythmias (including tachycardia), or QT prolongation. In addition, beta-agonists should be avoided in patients with congenital long QT syndrome due to the risk of torsade de pointes. Significant changes in systolic and diastolic blood pressures and heart rate could be expected to occur in some patients after use of any beta-adrenergic bronchodilator. As with other beta-adrenergic agonist medications, formoterol may produce significant hypokalemia in some patients, possibly through intracellular shunting, which has the potential to produce adverse cardiovascular effects. The decrease is usually transient, not requiring supplementation. Correct pre-existing hypokalemia prior to beta-agonist administration. Elderly patients may be more sensitive to the side effects of beta-agonists, especially tremor and tachycardia; this risk is higher in patients with preexisting coronary artery disease. Although not clearly established, airway responsiveness to beta-agonist medications may also change with age.
 
Rarely, anaphylactoid reactions including angioedema, urticaria, rash, and severe hypotension have been reported with beta-agonists, including formoterol.
 
Formoterol should be used cautiously in patients with thyroid disease (i.e., hyperthyroidism or thyrotoxicosis), diabetes mellitus, pheochromocytoma, unusual responsiveness to other sympathomimetic amines, or a seizure disorder (history of seizures). Beta-agonists may cause transient hyperglycemia. Exacerbation of diabetes mellitus and diabetic ketoacidosis have occurred when short-acting beta-2 agonists (e.g., albuterol) have been administered intravenously. During long-term studies of formoterol solution for nebulization, clinically significant changes in blood glucose occurred in some patients.
 
Safety and effectiveness of formoterol aerosol in children < 5 years have not been established. Formoterol solution for nebulization is indicated for adults only. Carefully instruct parents and children on appropriate use of the Foradil Aerolizer; there have been reports of patients swallowing the capsules, rather than placing the capsule in the inhaler-device for administration.
 
Formoterol is classified as FDA pregnancy risk category C. Use during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk. In an observational cohort study, 33 women were identified that used formoterol during pregnancy. Of the 33 women, 30 used formoterol in the first trimester, two during the second, and one during the third. Twenty-eight of 31 pregnancies resulted in live births; 3 were spontaneous abortions. Of the 25 live births, 5 were born prematurely at 31 to 36 weeks. Two congenital anomalies were reported; one in a premature infant (fetal heart rate anomaly) and one in a full-term infant (pyloric stenosis). Formoterol treatment was ongoing during labor and delivery for 16 of 25 pregnancies, including the mothers of 4 infants born prematurely. Beta-agonists can interfere with uterine contractility. Do not use formoterol during labor unless the benefits outweigh the risks.
 
It is unknown if formoterol is excreted in human milk. Exercise caution if formoterol is used during breast-feeding.
 
Formoterol capsules for inhalation (Foradil Aerolizer) contain 25 mg of lactose as a carrier. Caution should be exercised in patients with a true lactose hypersensitivity. Gastrointestinal lactose intolerance is not usually evident until greater than 3 grams of lactose has been consumed, and should not be a concern with the use of inhaled formoterol. However, the product information carries a warning that patients with a severe milk protein hypersensitivity may experience an allergic reaction to the product. Foradil Certihaler carries a similar warning due to lactose monohydrate and trace levels of milk protein which are contained in the product.
 
Beta-2 agonists should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with MAOI therapy (see Drug Interactions).
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    Treatment-Related Restrictions of Use
    General Information
    Currently marketed formoterol products are not FDA-approved for the treatment of asthma. All long-acting beta agonists (LABAs) are contraindicated for monotherapy treatment of asthma and, in patients with asthma, must be used with an asthma controller medication (i.e., inhaled corticosteroid).
Do not use formoterol as a reliever therapy for acute bronchospasm. Acute symptoms should be treated with an inhaled short-acting beta agonist (SABA). Increasing use of inhaled SABAs is one marker of deteriorating COPD. In this situation, the patient requires immediate reevaluation with reassessment of the treatment regimen. Formoterol inhalation solution should not be initiated in people with acutely deteriorating COPD, which may be a life-threatening condition. Formoterol inhalation solution has not been studied in patients with acutely deteriorating COPD. The use of formoterol fumarate inhalation solution in this setting is inappropriate.
    Headline
    cardiac arrhythmias, coronary artery disease, hypertension
    General Information
    Formoterol, like other beta2-agonists and sympathomimetic amines, should be used with caution in patients with cardiovascular disorders, especially coronary insufficiency (coronary artery disease), cardiac arrhythmias, and hypertension. Formoterol can produce a clinically significant cardiovascular effect in some patients as measured by increases in pulse rate, systolic or diastolic blood pressure, and cardiac arrhythmias, such as supraventricular tachycardia and extrasystoles. If such effects occur, formoterol may need to be discontinued.
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    Do not use formoterol in combination with another long-acting beta agonist (LABA) due to the risk for overdose. Do not exceed the maximum recommended formoterol daily dosage. Clinically significant cardiovascular effects and fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs.
    Headline
    diabetes mellitus, hyperthyroidism, seizure disorder
    General Information
    Formoterol should be used cautiously in patients with hyperthyroidism (thyrotoxicosis), diabetes mellitus, history of seizure disorder, or other unusual responsiveness to other sympathomimetic amines. Beta-agonists may cause transient hyperglycemia. Doses of the related beta2-agonist albuterol, when administered intravenously, have been reported to aggravate preexisting diabetes mellitus and ketoacidosis.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Formoterol is compatible with breast-feeding due to low oral bioavailability and low maternal serum concentrations after inhaled use. These criteria significantly limit the amount of systemic formoterol exposure in the breast-fed child. Asthma guidelines recommend long-acting beta-2 agonists (LABAs) in combination with inhaled corticosteroids as a preferred treatment option during lactation. Of note, formoterol is only FDA-approved for COPD. There are no data on the presence of formoterol in human milk, its effects on the breastfed child, or its effects on milk product. Formoterol is excreted in the milk of lactating rats.
    Headline
    labor, pregnancy
    General Information
    Formoterol may be used during pregnancy. Although formoterol monotherapy is not indicated for the treatment of asthma, data from large studies of pregnant individuals with asthma have not identified a relationship between the use of inhaled beta-2 agonists and adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. Asthma guidelines recommend long-acting beta agonists (LABAs), in combination with inhaled corticosteroids, as one of the preferred treatment options for the long-term control of moderate persistent asthma during pregnancy. While less data are available for LABAs vs. short-acting beta agonists (SABAs), most inhaled beta-2 agonists are considered acceptable for use during pregnancy because of low bioavailability and low maternal serum concentrations after use. There are no adequate and well-controlled human studies assessing the effects of formoterol during labor and delivery. Because beta-2 agonists may interfere with uterine contractility, formoterol use during labor should be restricted to those patients in whom the benefits clearly outweigh the risks.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Formoterol may be used during pregnancy. Although formoterol monotherapy is not indicated for the treatment of asthma, data from large studies of pregnant individuals with asthma have not identified a relationship between the use of inhaled beta-2 agonists and adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. Asthma guidelines recommend long-acting beta agonists (LABAs), in combination with inhaled corticosteroids, as one of the preferred treatment options for the long-term control of moderate persistent asthma during pregnancy. While less data are available for LABAs vs. short-acting beta agonists (SABAs), most inhaled beta-2 agonists are considered acceptable for use during pregnancy because of low bioavailability and low maternal serum concentrations after use. There are no adequate and well-controlled human studies assessing the effects of formoterol during labor and delivery. Because beta-2 agonists may interfere with uterine contractility, formoterol use during labor should be restricted to those patients in whom the benefits clearly outweigh the risks.

Interactions
Acebutolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant pseudoephedrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant pseudoephedrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant pseudoephedrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Acetaminophen; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Acetaminophen; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Acetaminophen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant pseudoephedrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Amphetamine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine Salts: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Arformoterol: (Major) Formoterol should not be used in conjunction with other medications containing a long-acting beta-2 agonist for any reason, as overdose may result. Coadministration can result in overdosage. Clinically significant cardiovascular effects and fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. Acute symptoms should be treated with inhaled short-acting beta-2 agonists (SABA) such as albuterol. SABAs should not be used on a regular basis (e.g., 4 times a day) while taking formoterol. Increasing SABA use is a sign of deteriorating disease for which prompt medical attention is required. Prompt re-evaluation of the patient and their COPD treatment regimen should occur if formoterol no longer controls symptoms of bronchoconstriction, the patient's SABA rescue becomes less effective, or the patient requires more SABA rescue doses than usual. Use formoterol and drugs known to prolong the QTc interval together with extreme caution; this combination may increase the risk of cardiovascular effects and ventricular arrhythmias; this includes combination with other beta-agonists.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Atenolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used. (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Atomoxetine: (Minor) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant use of atomoxetine and a beta-agonist. Concomitant use of atomoxetine and IV albuterol has been observed to potentiate the increases in blood pressure and heart rate observed with IV albuterol alone; this effect has not been observed with inhaled albuterol dosage forms.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Benzphetamine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Beta-adrenergic blockers: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Betaxolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Bisoprolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used. (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant pseudoephedrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant pseudoephedrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Bumetanide: (Moderate) Use beta-agonists and loop diuretics with caution due to risk for ECG changes and/or hypokalemia. The ECG changes and/or hypokalemia that may result from administration of loop diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Caffeine; Sodium Benzoate: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Carteolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant pseudoephedrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant pseudoephedrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Chlorothiazide: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant pseudoephedrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant pseudoephedrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant pseudoephedrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Chlorthalidone: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Cisapride: (Contraindicated) QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. Because of the potential for TdP, use of other drugs that might increase the QT interval is contraindicated with cisapride. Beta-agonists may be associated with adverse cardiovascular effects including QT interval prolongation, usually at higher doses and/or when associated with hypokalemia.
Cocaine: (Moderate) Additive effects and increased toxicity might be observed when using cocaine with beta-agonists, which are sympathomimetic agents. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive adrenergic stimulation and side effects, such as nervousness, insomnia, palpitations, or adverse cardiovascular effects.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant pseudoephedrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Desloratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant pseudoephedrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant pseudoephedrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant pseudoephedrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant amphetamine; dextroamphetamine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant pseudoephedrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Dichlorphenamide: (Moderate) Use dichlorphenamide and arformoterol or formoterol together with caution. Metabolic acidosis is listed by the manufacturers of arformoterol and formoterol as an adverse reaction seen with beta-2 agonists but would be rare with normal doses of arformoterol or formoterol. Metabolic acidosis has been reported with dichlorphenamide. Concurrent use may increase the severity of metabolic acidosis. Measure sodium bicarbonate concentrations at baseline and periodically during dichlorphenamide treatment. If metabolic acidosis occurs or persists, consider reducing the dose or discontinuing dichlorphenamide therapy.
Diethylpropion: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
DOBUTamine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
DOPamine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
ePHEDrine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
ePHEDrine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Ergotamine; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine may enhance the cardiac inotropic effects of beta-agonists.
Esmolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Ethacrynic Acid: (Moderate) Use beta-agonists and loop diuretics with caution due to risk for ECG changes and/or hypokalemia. The ECG changes and/or hypokalemia that may result from administration of loop diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded.
Fexofenadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant pseudoephedrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Fluticasone; Salmeterol: (Major) Formoterol should not be used in conjunction with other medications containing a long-acting beta-2 agonist for any reason, as overdose may result. Coadministration can result in overdosage. Clinically significant cardiovascular effects and fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. Acute symptoms should be treated with inhaled short-acting beta-2 agonists (SABA) such as albuterol. SABAs should not be used on a regular basis (e.g., 4 times a day) while taking formoterol. Increasing SABA use is a sign of deteriorating disease for which prompt medical attention is required. Prompt re-evaluation of the patient and their COPD treatment regimen should occur if formoterol no longer controls symptoms of bronchoconstriction, the patient's SABA rescue becomes less effective, or the patient requires more SABA rescue doses than usual. Use formoterol and drugs known to prolong the QTc interval together with extreme caution; this combination may increase the risk of cardiovascular effects and ventricular arrhythmias; this includes combination with other beta-agonists.
Fluticasone; Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Major) Formoterol should not be used in conjunction with other medications containing a long-acting beta-2 agonist for any reason, as overdose may result. Coadministration can result in overdosage. Clinically significant cardiovascular effects and fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. Acute symptoms should be treated with inhaled short-acting beta-2 agonists (SABA) such as albuterol. SABAs should not be used on a regular basis (e.g., 4 times a day) while taking formoterol. Increasing SABA use is a sign of deteriorating disease for which prompt medical attention is required. Prompt re-evaluation of the patient and their COPD treatment regimen should occur if formoterol no longer controls symptoms of bronchoconstriction, the patient's SABA rescue becomes less effective, or the patient requires more SABA rescue doses than usual. Use formoterol and drugs known to prolong the QTc interval together with extreme caution; this combination may increase the risk of cardiovascular effects and ventricular arrhythmias; this includes combination with other beta-agonists.
Fluticasone; Vilanterol: (Major) Formoterol should not be used in conjunction with other medications containing a long-acting beta-2 agonist for any reason, as overdose may result. Coadministration can result in overdosage. Clinically significant cardiovascular effects and fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. Acute symptoms should be treated with inhaled short-acting beta-2 agonists (SABA) such as albuterol. SABAs should not be used on a regular basis (e.g., 4 times a day) while taking formoterol. Increasing SABA use is a sign of deteriorating disease for which prompt medical attention is required. Prompt re-evaluation of the patient and their COPD treatment regimen should occur if formoterol no longer controls symptoms of bronchoconstriction, the patient's SABA rescue becomes less effective, or the patient requires more SABA rescue doses than usual. Use formoterol and drugs known to prolong the QTc interval together with extreme caution; this combination may increase the risk of cardiovascular effects and ventricular arrhythmias; this includes combination with other beta-agonists.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Furosemide: (Moderate) Use beta-agonists and loop diuretics with caution due to risk for ECG changes and/or hypokalemia. The ECG changes and/or hypokalemia that may result from administration of loop diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded.
guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant pseudoephedrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant pseudoephedrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Isocarboxazid: (Moderate) Use beta-agonists with caution in patients receiving concomitant monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or within 14 days of stopping treatment with MAOIs because the action of beta-agonists on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated.
Isoproterenol: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Itraconazole: (Moderate) Use itraconazole with caution in combination with beta-agonists as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Itraconazole has been associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Beta-agonists may be associated with adverse cardiovascular effects including QT interval prolongation, usually at higher doses, when associated with hypokalemia, or when used with other drugs known to prolong the QT interval. This risk may be more clinically significant with long-acting beta-agonists as compared to short-acting beta-agonists.
Ketoconazole: (Moderate) Formoterol, as with other long-acting beta-agonists, should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with drugs known to prolong the QTc interval like ketoconazole because the effect of adrenergic agonists on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated. Drugs that are known to prolong the QTc interval have an increased risk of ventricular arrhythmias. Ketoconazole has been associated with prolongation of the QT interval and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Labetalol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Landiolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Levobunolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Levoketoconazole: (Moderate) Formoterol, as with other long-acting beta-agonists, should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with drugs known to prolong the QTc interval like ketoconazole because the effect of adrenergic agonists on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated. Drugs that are known to prolong the QTc interval have an increased risk of ventricular arrhythmias. Ketoconazole has been associated with prolongation of the QT interval and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Levothyroxine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant beta-agonist and thyroid hormone use. Concurrent use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone. Thyroid hormones may increase the risk of coronary insufficiency when sympathomimetic agents are administered to patients with coronary artery disease.
Levothyroxine; Liothyronine (Porcine): (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant beta-agonist and thyroid hormone use. Concurrent use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone. Thyroid hormones may increase the risk of coronary insufficiency when sympathomimetic agents are administered to patients with coronary artery disease.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Linezolid: (Moderate) Linezolid may enhance the hypertensive effect of beta-agonists. Closely monitor for increased blood pressure during coadministration. Linezolid is an antibiotic that is also a weak, reversible nonselective inhibitor of monoamine oxidase (MAO). Therefore, linezolid has the potential for interaction with adrenergic agents, such as the beta-agonists.
Liothyronine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant beta-agonist and thyroid hormone use. Concurrent use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone. Thyroid hormones may increase the risk of coronary insufficiency when sympathomimetic agents are administered to patients with coronary artery disease.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Loop diuretics: (Moderate) Use beta-agonists and loop diuretics with caution due to risk for ECG changes and/or hypokalemia. The ECG changes and/or hypokalemia that may result from administration of loop diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded.
Loratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant pseudoephedrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Methacholine: (Major) Discontinue use of formoterol 36 hours before a methacholine challenge test. Beta-agonists inhibit the airway response to methacholine.
Methamphetamine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
metOLazone: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Metoprolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used. (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Midodrine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: (Moderate) Use beta-agonists with caution in patients receiving concomitant monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or within 14 days of stopping treatment with MAOIs because the action of beta-agonists on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated.
Nadolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant pseudoephedrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Nebivolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Norepinephrine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Olodaterol: (Major) Formoterol should not be used in conjunction with other medications containing a long-acting beta-2 agonist for any reason, as overdose may result. Coadministration can result in overdosage. Clinically significant cardiovascular effects and fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. Acute symptoms should be treated with inhaled short-acting beta-2 agonists (SABA) such as albuterol. SABAs should not be used on a regular basis (e.g., 4 times a day) while taking formoterol. Increasing SABA use is a sign of deteriorating disease for which prompt medical attention is required. Prompt re-evaluation of the patient and their COPD treatment regimen should occur if formoterol no longer controls symptoms of bronchoconstriction, the patient's SABA rescue becomes less effective, or the patient requires more SABA rescue doses than usual. Use formoterol and drugs known to prolong the QTc interval together with extreme caution; this combination may increase the risk of cardiovascular effects and ventricular arrhythmias; this includes combination with other beta-agonists.
Phendimetrazine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Phenelzine: (Moderate) Use beta-agonists with caution in patients receiving concomitant monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or within 14 days of stopping treatment with MAOIs because the action of beta-agonists on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated.
Phentermine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant phentermine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant phentermine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Pindolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant epinephrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Procarbazine: (Major) Procarbazine has MAOI activity and the cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use of MAOIs. Although no data are available, procarbazine may interact similarly. Close observation for such effects is prudent, particularly if beta-agonists are administered within two weeks of stopping the MAOI.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant pseudoephedrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant pseudoephedrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Racepinephrine: (Major) Racepinephrine is a sympathomimetic drug with agonist actions at both the alpha and beta receptors. Patients using prescription beta-agonists for the treatment of asthma should generally avoid the concurrent use of racepinephrine inhalation since additive cardiovascular and nervous system adverse effects are possible, some which may be undesirable.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) The concomitant use of rasagiline and sympathomimetic agents was not allowed in clinical studies; therefore, caution is advised during concurrent use of rasagiline and respiratory adrenergic agents (e.g., the beta-agonists). Although sympathomimetic agents are contraindicated for use with traditional non-selective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), hypertensive reactions generally are not expected to occur during concurrent use with rasagiline because of the selective monoamine oxidase-B (MAO-B) inhibition of rasagiline at manufacturer recommended doses. However, the cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use of MAOIs. At least one case of hypertension occurred in a patient with previous episodes of high blood pressure who was receiving albuterol and selegiline, a selective MAOI related to rasagiline, concurrently. Close observation for such effects is prudent, particularly if beta-2 agonists are administered during or within 2 weeks of use of an MAOI.
Ribociclib: (Moderate) Due to a possible risk for QT prolongation, ribociclib and long-acting beta-agonists should be used together cautiously. Beta-agonists may be associated with adverse cardiovascular effects including QT interval prolongation, usually at higher doses, when associated with hypokalemia, or when used with other drugs known to prolong the QT interval like ribociclib. This risk may be more clinically significant with long-acting beta-agonists such as formoterol as compared to short-acting beta-agonists.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Moderate) Due to a possible risk for QT prolongation, ribociclib and long-acting beta-agonists should be used together cautiously. Beta-agonists may be associated with adverse cardiovascular effects including QT interval prolongation, usually at higher doses, when associated with hypokalemia, or when used with other drugs known to prolong the QT interval like ribociclib. This risk may be more clinically significant with long-acting beta-agonists such as formoterol as compared to short-acting beta-agonists.
Salmeterol: (Major) Formoterol should not be used in conjunction with other medications containing a long-acting beta-2 agonist for any reason, as overdose may result. Coadministration can result in overdosage. Clinically significant cardiovascular effects and fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. Acute symptoms should be treated with inhaled short-acting beta-2 agonists (SABA) such as albuterol. SABAs should not be used on a regular basis (e.g., 4 times a day) while taking formoterol. Increasing SABA use is a sign of deteriorating disease for which prompt medical attention is required. Prompt re-evaluation of the patient and their COPD treatment regimen should occur if formoterol no longer controls symptoms of bronchoconstriction, the patient's SABA rescue becomes less effective, or the patient requires more SABA rescue doses than usual. Use formoterol and drugs known to prolong the QTc interval together with extreme caution; this combination may increase the risk of cardiovascular effects and ventricular arrhythmias; this includes combination with other beta-agonists.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Theophylline, Aminophylline: (Moderate) Beta-agonists are commonly used in conjunction with aminophylline or theophylline therapy. Concomitant use can cause additive CNS stimulation; some patients may experience tremor or nervousness with combined use. More serious effects are rare, but may result in additive cardiovascular effects such as increased blood pressure and heart rate. Methylxanthine derivatives, ((e.g., theophylline and aminophylline) may rarely aggravate the hypokalemic effect seen with beta-agonists. Consider checking potassium levels if clinically indicated. (Moderate) Beta-agonists are commonly used in conjunction with aminophylline or theophylline therapy. Concomitant use can cause additive CNS stimulation; some patients may experience tremor or nervousness with combined use. More serious effects are rare, but may result in additive cardiovascular effects such as increased blood pressure and heart rate. Methylxanthine derivatives, (e.g., theophylline, aminophylline) may rarely aggravate the hypokalemic effect seen with beta-agonists. Consider checking potassium levels if clinically indicated.
Thiazide diuretics: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Thyroid hormones: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant beta-agonist and thyroid hormone use. Concurrent use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone. Thyroid hormones may increase the risk of coronary insufficiency when sympathomimetic agents are administered to patients with coronary artery disease.
Timolol: (Moderate) Beta-blockers will block the pulmonary effects of inhaled beta-agonists, and in some cases may exacerbate bronchospasm in patients with reactive airways. Beta-agonists can sometimes increase heart rate or have other cardiovascular effects, particularly when used in high doses or if hypokalemia is present. Use of a beta-1-selective (cardioselective) beta blocker is recommended whenever possible when this combination of drugs must be used together. Monitor the patient's lung and cardiovascular status closely. Beta-agonists and beta-blockers are pharmacologic opposites and will counteract each other to some extent when given concomitantly, especially when non-cardioselective beta blockers are used.
Tiotropium; Olodaterol: (Major) Formoterol should not be used in conjunction with other medications containing a long-acting beta-2 agonist for any reason, as overdose may result. Coadministration can result in overdosage. Clinically significant cardiovascular effects and fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. Acute symptoms should be treated with inhaled short-acting beta-2 agonists (SABA) such as albuterol. SABAs should not be used on a regular basis (e.g., 4 times a day) while taking formoterol. Increasing SABA use is a sign of deteriorating disease for which prompt medical attention is required. Prompt re-evaluation of the patient and their COPD treatment regimen should occur if formoterol no longer controls symptoms of bronchoconstriction, the patient's SABA rescue becomes less effective, or the patient requires more SABA rescue doses than usual. Use formoterol and drugs known to prolong the QTc interval together with extreme caution; this combination may increase the risk of cardiovascular effects and ventricular arrhythmias; this includes combination with other beta-agonists.
Torsemide: (Moderate) Use beta-agonists and loop diuretics with caution due to risk for ECG changes and/or hypokalemia. The ECG changes and/or hypokalemia that may result from administration of loop diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded.
Tranylcypromine: (Moderate) Use beta-agonists with caution in patients receiving concomitant monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or within 14 days of stopping treatment with MAOIs because the action of beta-agonists on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.
Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Major) Formoterol should not be used in conjunction with other medications containing a long-acting beta-2 agonist for any reason, as overdose may result. Coadministration can result in overdosage. Clinically significant cardiovascular effects and fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. Acute symptoms should be treated with inhaled short-acting beta-2 agonists (SABA) such as albuterol. SABAs should not be used on a regular basis (e.g., 4 times a day) while taking formoterol. Increasing SABA use is a sign of deteriorating disease for which prompt medical attention is required. Prompt re-evaluation of the patient and their COPD treatment regimen should occur if formoterol no longer controls symptoms of bronchoconstriction, the patient's SABA rescue becomes less effective, or the patient requires more SABA rescue doses than usual. Use formoterol and drugs known to prolong the QTc interval together with extreme caution; this combination may increase the risk of cardiovascular effects and ventricular arrhythmias; this includes combination with other beta-agonists.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Hypokalemia associated with thiazide diuretics can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is unknown, use caution when coadministering beta-agonists with thiazide diuretics and monitor serum potassium as clinically indicated.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  Post-marketing experience has revealed serious exacerbations of asthma, including fatal respiratory events, associated with the use of long acting beta-agonists. In most cases, these have occurred in patients with severe asthma and/or in some patients in whom asthma has been acutely deteriorating, but they have also occurred in patients with less severe asthma. It is not possible from these reports to determine whether the long acting beta-agonist contributed to these events or simply failed to relieve the deteriorating asthma. If a patient using formoterol experiences an asthma exacerbation with worsening wheezing, immediate medical attention should be sought.In general, formoterol's cardiac adverse event profile is similar to other comparable agents: angina, hypertension or hypotension, sinus tachycardia, and cardiac arrhythmias (arrhythmia exacerbation, ST-T wave changes, QT prolongation). Palpitations have been reported in 1—5% of patients. Typically adverse cardiac effects are not seen with normal therapeutic doses of formoterol, but may become more of a concern with higher doses, especially in patients with pre-existing cardiac disease and/or COPD.Formoterol is well tolerated at normal therapeutic doses. Fatigue, headache (2.5%), hoarseness, insomnia (1.5%), malaise, muscle cramps, nausea/vomiting, nervousness, oral ulceration and xerostomia (dry mouth) are occasionally reported in patients using inhaled formoterol. Local oral irritation appears to occur primarily in the first month of use. Pharyngitis (6%) has been reported in one study evaluating a combination formoterol/budesonide dry powder inhaler. Dizziness, dysphonia and tremor can be dose-related adverse effects with formoterol but were reported at similar rates to placebo in clinical trials (1%—2%). Significant changes in blood sugar or potassium are infrequent at the recommended formoterol dose; however, hypokalemia and hyperglycemia may be a concern with aerosol doses exceeding 12 mcg per dose. During long-term studies of formoterol solution for nebulization, clinically significant changes in blood glucose occurred in some patients. Metabolic acidosis is listed by the manufacturer as an adverse reaction seen with beta2-agonists but would be rare with normal doses of formoterol.Rarely, anaphylactoid reactions with severe hypotension or angioedema have been reported. Urticaria and rash (unspecified) may also occur. Reports of photosensitivity were considered possibly related to formoterol use in 3 patients in an observational cohort study.Chest infection (2.7%) occurred at a higher rate than placebo (0.4%) in controlled trials of formoterol aerosol in patients > 5 years of age. A slightly higher incidence of chest infection was reported in elderly patients > 75 years of age, although causality with formoterol has not been established. Infections, abdominal pain, nausea, and dyspepsia have been reported more frequently in children 5—12 years of age than in adults. Infections or inflammatory reactions reported in asthmatic children 5—12 years of age receiving formoterol aerosol in clinical trials have included gastroenteritis, rhinitis, tonsillitis, and viral infection.Tolerance to formoterol aerosol has been reported in several clinical studies with a dose of 24 mcg two times a day (twice the recommended dose). Tolerance was observed as evidenced by diminished forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1) and loss of the bronchoprotective effect at the end of the 12-hour dose period. Clinically significant tolerance was not observed with the 12 mcg twice daily dose of formoterol in combination with budesonide in a 12-month study. No evidence of hyper-responsiveness (worsening of symptoms) was reported after discontinuation of formoterol in an observational cohort study.Paresthesias that reoccurred upon formoterol rechallenge and were temporally related to formoterol use have been reported. Paresthesias appear to be infrequent ADRs but have resulted in discontinuation of treatment in several patients.Other events including chest pain, viral infection, and bronchitis occurred at a similar incidence to placebo. In general, formoterol aerosol is well tolerated at a dose of 12 mcg twice a day.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    angina, atrial fibrillation, chest pain (unspecified), hypertension, palpitations, QT prolongation, sinus tachycardia, supraventricular tachycardia (SVT), ventricular tachycardia
    General Information
    Formoterol, like other beta2-agonists and sympathomimetic amines, can produce a clinically significant cardiovascular effect in some patients as measured by increases in pulse rate (sinus tachycardia), systolic or diastolic blood pressure (hypertension), and/or symptoms or cardiac arrhythmias, such as supraventricular tachycardia (SVT) and extrasystoles (palpitations). If such effects occur, formoterol may need to be discontinued. Beta-agonists have been reported to produce ECG changes, such as flattening of the T wave, QT prolongation, and ST segment depression; the clinical significance of these findings is unknown. Overall, the frequency of all cardiovascular (CV) events in the clinical studies of formoterol (inhaler and nebulizer solution) was low and comparable to placebo. Patients with pre-existing cardiac disease and/or COPD may be more at risk for potential CV effects; patients with significant concurrent cardiac and other medical diseases were excluded from the pre-approval trials with formoterol nebulizer solution. There were no frequently occurring specific CV adverse events for formoterol inhalation solution for nebulization (frequency 1% or more and greater than placebo). Chest pain (unspecified) occurred in 1.9% to 3.2% of patients treated with formoterol inhaler (Foradil Aerolizer) vs. 1.3% to 2.1% receiving placebo during clinical studies. Continuous electrocardiographic (ECG) monitoring was performed in an 8-week, randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled trial of 204 adult COPD patients (pre-existing CV conditions not stated) treated with formoterol inhaler (Foradil Aerolizer) 12 mcg twice daily or placebo. Holter monitoring was used to evaluate predefined pro-arrhythmic events. Non-sustained ventricular tachycardia occurred in two (2.2%) of the formoterol treated patients vs. 0% in the placebo group. An increase in ventricular premature beats (VPB) occurred in 3.3% of formoterol treated patients vs. 1.9% in the placebo group. There were no events of sustained of ventricular tachycardia, ventricular flutter or fibrillation, or symptomatic runs of VPB. One patient in the formoterol group had a serious adverse event of atrial flutter. In general, formoterol's cardiac adverse event profile is similar to other comparable long-acting beta agonist agents. During postmarketing experience, angina pectoris, cardiac arrhythmias (e.g., atrial fibrillation, ventricular extrasystoles, and tachyarrhythmias), QT interval prolonged on ECG, increased blood pressure, including hypertension have been reported with use of fluticasone inhaler (Foradil Aerolizer).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      palpitations
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      QT prolongation
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      sinus tachycardia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      ventricular tachycardia
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      chest pain (unspecified)
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      supraventricular tachycardia (SVT)
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      angina
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      atrial fibrillation
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    dizziness, dysphonia, fatigue, headache, hoarseness, insomnia, malaise, muscle cramps, tremor
    General Information
    Formoterol is well tolerated at normal therapeutic doses. Dizziness (1.6% to 2.4%), dysphonia (1%), insomnia (1.5% to 2.4%), tremor (1.9%), and muscle cramps (1.7%) were reported in clinical trials of inhaled formoterol. Additional adverse events experienced with other beta-agonists that may occur with formoterol include hoarseness, nervousness, headache, fatigue, and malaise.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dysphonia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      hoarseness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      malaise
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      muscle cramps
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      tremor
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, photosensitivity, pruritus, rash (unspecified), urticaria
    General Information
    Rarely, anaphylactoid reactions with severe hypotension or angioedema have been reported with formoterol. Urticaria, pruritus (1.5%), and rash (unspecified) (1.1%) have also been reported. Reports of photosensitivity were considered possibly related to formoterol use in 3 patients in an observational cohort study.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      photosensitivity
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    abdominal pain, diarrhea, dyspepsia, nausea, vomiting, xerostomia
    General Information
    Gastrointestinal adverse events reported in patients receiving formoterol in clinical trials at a greater frequency than patients receiving placebo include nausea (4.9%), vomiting (2.4%), xerostomia (1.2—3.3%), and diarrhea (4.9%). Abdominal pain, nausea, gastroenteritis, and dyspepsia have been reported more frequently in children 5—12 years of age receiving formoterol in clinical trials than in adults.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      dyspepsia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    tolerance
    General Information
    Tolerance to formoterol aerosol has been reported in several clinical studies with a dose of 24 mcg two times a day (twice the recommended dose). Tolerance was observed as evidenced by diminished forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1) and loss of the bronchoprotective effect at the end of the 12-hour dose period. Clinically significant tolerance was not observed with the 12 mcg twice daily dose of formoterol in combination with budesonide in a 12-month study. No evidence of hyper-responsiveness (worsening of symptoms) was reported after discontinuation of formoterol in an observational cohort study.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      tolerance
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    paresthesias
    General Information
    Paresthesias that reoccurred upon formoterol rechallenge and were temporally related to formoterol use have been reported. Paresthesias appear to be infrequent ADRs but have resulted in discontinuation of treatment in several patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      paresthesias
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    bronchial secretions, bronchospasm, dyspnea, fever, infection, pharyngitis, rhinitis, sinusitis
    General Information
    Formoterol, like other inhaled beta-agonists, can produce life-threatening paradoxical bronchospasm. In the event of a paradoxical bronchospasm, discontinue formoterol immediately and initiate an alternative therapy. Infectious or respiratory adverse events reported in patients receiving formoterol in clinical trials at a greater frequency than patients receiving placebo include increased bronchial secretions (sputum production) (1.5%), viral infection (17.2%), upper respiratory tract infection (7.4%), bronchitis (4.6%), pharyngitis (3.3—3.5%), sinusitis (2.7%), chest infection (2.7%), fever (2.2%), dyspnea (2.1%), and tonsillitis (1.2%). Infectious or respiratory adverse events reported in asthmatic children 5—12 years of age receiving formoterol aerosol in clinical trials include rhinitis, tonsillitis, and viral infection. In a clinical trial of asthmatic children 5—12 years of age receiving formoterol aerosol, serious asthma exacerbations occurred more often in patients receiving formoterol at doses of 24 mcg/day (4.7%) and 48 mcg/day (6.4%) compared to patients receiving placebo (0%). Serious asthma exacerbations also occurred more frequently in adult and adolescent patients receiving formoterol aerosol 48 mcg/day compared to placebo, but not in patients receiving 24 mcg/day. In general, formoterol aerosol is well tolerated at a dose of 12 mcg twice a day.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      bronchial secretions
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      sinusitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      bronchospasm
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pharyngitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      rhinitis
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    asthma-related death, wheezing
    General Information
    An increase in the need for rescue inhaler use and/or worsening wheezing may occur during therapy with formoterol and are symptoms of a deterioration of the underlying respiratory condition, a potentially life-threatening situation. Advise patients not to exceed recommended doses of this medicine, but instead, seek immediate medical attention if such symptoms occur. When long-acting beta agonists (LABAs) are used in fixed-dose combination with inhaled corticosteroids (ICS), data from large clinical trials do not show a significant increase in the risk of serious asthma-related events (hospitalizations, intubations, death) compared with ICS alone. The use of a LABA as asthma monotherapy, without an ICS, is associated with an increased risk of asthma-related death. Available data from controlled clinical trials also suggest that use of LABA as monotherapy increases the risk of asthma-related hospitalization in pediatric and adolescent patients. These findings are considered a class effect of LABA monotherapy. In most cases, serious acute respiratory events have occurred in patients with severe asthma and/or in patients in whom asthma has been acutely deteriorating, but such events have also occurred in patients with less severe asthma. These findings pertain only to patients who have asthma.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      asthma-related death
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      wheezing
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    hyperglycemia, hypokalemia
    General Information
    Beta-agonist medications such as formoterol may produce significant hypokalemia in some patients, possibly through intracellular shunting, which has the potential to produce adverse cardiovascular effects. The decrease in serum potassium is usually transient, not requiring supplementation. Clinically significant changes in blood glucose and/or serum potassium were infrequent during clinical studies with long-term administration of formoterol inhaler or nebulization solution at the recommended doses. Both hypokalemia and hyperglycemia have been reported with postmarketing experience.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperglycemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hypokalemia
      Severity
      Moderate

Description
  Text
  Formoterol is an inhaled long-acting beta-2 receptor agonist (LABA). Formoterol is given via nebulization and is indicated for the maintenance treatment of airflow obstruction associated with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) in adults. Due to the delayed onset of effect, formoterol should not be used for relief of acute bronchospasm. Formoterol significantly improves FEV1, lung volume, dyspnea, health status, number of hospitalizations, and exacerbation rates in individuals with COPD, but does not affect mortality or the rate of lung function decline. COPD guidelines recommend a bronchodilator as initial therapy for individuals with COPD in Group A; a long-acting bronchodilator, such as a LABA or long-acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMA), is preferred except in individuals with very occasional breathlessness. In individuals with stable COPD, LAMAs have a greater effect on exacerbation reduction than LABAs and decrease hospitalizations. In individuals in Group B and Group E, guidelines recommend initial therapy with a LABA plus LAMA combination. Formoterol has been used clinically for the maintenance treatment of asthma but should not be used alone; there are combination formoterol with ICS products that are part of preferred regimens for asthma management in selected individuals with persistent asthma. The use of LABAs alone to treat asthma without an ICS to treat lung inflammation is associated with an increased risk of asthma-related death; therefore, LABAs are contraindicated for use in people with asthma without the concurrent use of an asthma controller medication (i.e., an ICS). Formoterol was first FDA-approved in 2001.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Inhaled formoterol acts locally in the lung as a bronchodilator. Similar to other beta-2 agonists, formoterol's mechanism of action involves stimulation of adenyl cyclase leading to the production of cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) via adenosine triphosphate (ATP). Increased levels of cAMP result in relaxation of the bronchial smooth muscle.
 
Formoterol, like salmeterol, is highly lipophilic. Formoterol enters the plasma cell membrane in the form of a depot and is gradually released into the aqueous phase to react with the beta-2 receptor, resulting in a long duration of action. The aqueous phase activity, not demonstrated by salmeterol, is responsible for the rapid onset of action of formoterol.
 
Formoterol has more than a 200-fold greater agonist activity at beta-2 receptors (primarily in the lung) than at beta-1 receptors (primarily in the heart). However, 10% to 50% of the beta receptors in the heart are beta-2 receptors and raise the possibility that even highly selective beta-2 receptor agonists may have adverse cardiovascular effects, such as tachycardia, palpitations and ischemia.
 
As with other beta-2 agonists, formoterol may possess antiinflammatory activity, but the clinical significance of this effect is unknown. In vitro studies have demonstrated inhibition of mast cell mediators such as histamine and leukotrienes. Monotherapy with formoterol is inappropriate due to lack of proven antiinflammatory and disease-modifying properties.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Inhalation Route
    Description
    Dry powder inhalers: Following inhalation of a single 120 mcg dose (10 times the recommended dose) by healthy subjects, a minimal amount of formoterol was absorbed into plasma within 5 minutes of dosing. Some accumulation in plasma occurs with multiple doses. Most of the inhaled formoterol delivered to the bloodstream is swallowed and absorbed from the GI tract. Bronchodilation begins to occur in 1 to 3 minutes. The onset of therapeutic effects, as measured by a 15% improvement in forced expiratory flow in one second (FEV-1), occurs in approximately 15 minutes. In clinical trials, most patients experienced the maximum improvement in FEV-1 after inhalation of a 12 mcg dose within 1 to 3 hours. Significant increases in lung function and reduction in asthmatic symptoms are evident by the second week of treatment.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Formoterol pharmacokinetics have not been studied in those with hepatic impairment.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Formoterol pharmacokinetics have not been studied in those with renal impairment.
    Name
    Pediatrics
    Description
    Limited data are available in pediatric patients. In a study of children 5 years and older with asthma, formoterol accumulation did not exceed that seen in adults. Approximately 6% and 6.5% to 9% of the dose was recovered in the urine of the children as unchanged and conjugated formoterol, respectively.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Formoterol pharmacokinetics have not been studied in the elderly.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    No gender differences have been noted for formoterol.
  Text
  Formoterol is administered via nebulization. Formoterol is extensively metabolized in the liver by direct glucuronidation and O-demethylation followed by glucuronide conjugation. Four cytochrome P450 isoenzymes (CYP2D6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, and CYP2A6) are involved in the O-demethylation of formoterol. Formoterol has not been shown to inhibit CYP450 isoenzymes. About 60% of a dose is eliminated in the urine and 33% in the feces over a period of 104 hours. In the urine, roughly 10% of a dose is excreted unchanged and roughly 15% is eliminated as the direct glucuronide conjugate. The mean terminal elimination half-life is roughly 10 hours.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Inhalation Administration
      Description
      Inhalation solution for nebulization (Perforomist):
For oral inhalation via nebulization only.
Dilution of the solution is not necessary prior to administration.
Open the foil pouch to remove the dose immediately prior to use. Store unused doses in the foil pouch until time of use.
Only administer via a standard jet nebulizer connected to an air compressor with adequate airflow and a face mask or mouthpiece. Safety and efficacy of using this product with non-compressor based nebulizer systems have not been established.
The approximate nebulization time for a single dose is 9 minutes; however, this may vary depending upon the nebulizer system used.
Discard contents of any partially used container. Discard the container and top immediately after use because it is a choking hazard to infants.
Compatibility, safety, and efficacy with concurrently administered nebulized drugs have not been established.
    Name
    Inhalation Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    40 mcg/day via nebulizer.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    40 mcg/day via nebulizer.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy of nebulization have not been established. Previously available inhalers were approved in children as young as 5 years of age.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy of nebulization have not been established. Previously available inhalers were approved in children as young as 5 years of age.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy of nebulization have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific information regarding the need for formoterol dosage adjustment is not available; formoterol has not been studied in patients with hepatic impairment.
  Renal Impairment
  Formoterol has not been formally studied in patients with renal impairment; no dosage adjustment guidelines are available.
