=== Mitotane (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 411)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Mitotane is an adrenal cytotoxic agent that modifies steroid metabolism and directly suppresses the adrenal cortex.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: Starting dose of 2,000 to 6,000 mg per day PO; adjust PO dosage to plasma drug concentrations of 14 mg/liter to 20 mg/liter.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): ataxia, confusion, depression, dizziness, headache, lethargy, neurotoxicity, vertigo, weakness, blurred vision, diplopia, retinopathy, anemia, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatic failure, hepatitis, hepatotoxicity, ovarian cyst, ovarian torsion, pelvic pain, vaginal bleeding

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Mitotane should only be administered under the supervision of a qualified physician experienced in the uses of cancer chemotherapeutic agents. Mitotane alters the adrenal and extra-adrenal metabolism of steroids, and glucocorticoid replacement therapy typically is necessary. Hazardous drug: NIOSH 2024 List: Table 1

Brand Names
  - Lysodren

Dosage Forms
  - LYSODREN 500mg Tablet
  - Mitotane Bulk powder

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        2,000 mg to 6,000 mg (total daily dose) by mouth, divided in 3 or 4 daily doses. Monitor mitotane plasma levels and increase doses based on patient tolerance and clinical response to achieve a blood concentration of 14 to 20 mg/liter, as tolerated. In a retrospective, single-center study (n = 59), mitotane was initially dosed at 10,000 mg per day (range, 4,000 mg to 16,000 mg), and maintained at 7,000 mg per day (range, 3,000 mg to 20,000 mg); blood levels were not monitored. Hormonal secretion was controlled in 75% of patients, and 14% of patients had partial tumor regression; survival was not affected. Significantly more patients with primary adrenocortical tumors (n = 62) responded to mitotane with trough concentrations of at least 14 mg/liter compared to those with lower trough concentrations (42.9% vs. 0%) in a retrospective case series, including 3 patients with a complete response; the response rate was also significantly higher in patients with recurrent adrenocortical tumors (n = 23) and trough concentrations higher than 14 mg/liter (69.2% vs. 0%), including 5 complete responses. Mitotane trough levels of 14 mg/liter or more were independently associated with improved survival; however, after total resection, adjuvant mitotane (n = 11) did not influence survival.
    Heading
    For the treatment of inoperable adrenocortical cancer, both functional and non-functional types
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        Usual dose range: 0.5 to 5 grams per day PO, given in 3 divided doses. Retrospective studies show approximately 80% urinary free cortisol normalization. Mitotane is rarely used to treat Cushing syndrome; experts recommend that use be limited to individuals with adrenocortical cancer who have endogenous Cushing disease.
    Heading
    For the treatment of Cushing syndrome†

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Mitotane should only be administered under the supervision of a qualified physician experienced in the uses of cancer chemotherapeutic agents. Mitotane alters the adrenal and extra-adrenal metabolism of steroids, and glucocorticoid replacement therapy typically is necessary. Mitotane should be temporarily discontinued immediately following shock or severe trauma as it causes adrenal insufficiency; in this situation, exogenous corticosteroids should be administered. Furthermore, patients receiving mitotane or patients in whom mitotane therapy has been recently discontinued should be closely observed for signs preceding adrenal insufficiency such as shock, severe trauma, or infection; patients should be warned to contact their clinician if injury, illness, or infection occurs. Mitotane should be used with caution in patients with an infection. Neurological assessments should be performed in patients receiving mitotane therapy for 2 years or longer because prolonged therapy can cause severe adverse neurological problems including brain damage and functional impairment. A preexisting neurological disease is not necessarily a contraindication to beginning mitotane therapy.
 
Hepatic disease causing hepatic impairment may reduce the metabolism and cause accumulation of mitotane. Dosage adjustments may be required.
 
Mitotane can cause impaired mental alertness, so patients should be warned not to engage in hazardous activities requiring mental alertness such as driving or operating heavy machinery.
 
Mitotane is a pregnancy category C drug. It is not known whether mitotane is teratogenic. Mitotane use during pregnancy should be avoided unless the potential benefits of therapy outweigh the unknown potential risks to the fetus.
 
Mitotane should not be used during breast-feeding.
 
Safety and effectiveness in children have not been established.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    adrenal insufficiency, infection, shock, trauma
    General Information
    Patients treated with mitotane are at increased risk for developing adrenal crisis that may lead to death in the setting of shock, severe trauma, or infection. Interrupt treatment if shock, trauma, infection, or adrenal suppression occurs; continued treatment in these settings can cause adrenal crisis. Use mitotane with caution in patients with pre-existing adrenal insufficiency. Monitor glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid levels in all patients during treatment and replace systemic corticosteroids as clinically appropriate; high-dose replacement therapy may be required due to treatment-related increases in steroid clearance as well as increases in steroid binding protein. Monitor free cortisol and corticotropin (ACTH) to ensure appropriate steroid dosing. Provide supportive care if necessary. Educate patients on the signs and symptoms of adrenal suppression and advise them to contact their healthcare provider immediately if shock, trauma, infection, or adrenal suppression occurs.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    planned procedure
    General Information
    Do not administer mitotane prior to a planned procedure, elective surgery, major surgery, or invasive dental work due to the risk of adrenal crisis. Additionally, mitotane can cause platelet function disorders due to abnormal adenosine diphosphate (ADP)-induced platelet aggregation; routine in vitro testing for bleeding time is not sufficient to detect this platelet defect and to assess bleeding risk as some patients may have a prolonged bleeding time while others may have a normal bleeding time. Perform ADP-inducted platelet aggregometry testing prior to surgery or dental work to determine mitotane-induced bleeding risk. An interruption of therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for patients with prolonged bleeding time.
    Headline
    obesity, weight loss
    General Information
    Closely monitor mitotane plasma concentrations in patients with obesity or recent weight loss. Mitotane is lipophilic and accumulates in adipose tissue; plasma concentrations may suddenly increase despite maintaining a consistent dose.
    Headline
    activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery
    General Information
    Neurologic adverse reactions have been reported in patients treated with mitotane, including sedation, lethargy, and vertigo. Advise patients against driving or operating machinery or performing activities requiring coordination and concentration if they are experiencing neurotoxicity. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary depending on severity; additionally, evaluate thyroid function if cognitive dysfunction occurs as mitotane may induce hypothyroidism. Because neurotoxicity is more common in patients with plasma concentrations greater than 20 mcg/mL, monitor mitotane plasma concentrations every 2 weeks after beginning therapy and after dose adjustments. Once target plasma concentrations are achieved, continue to monitor concentrations monthly during treatment and every 2 months after discontinuation of therapy.
    Headline
    abnormal uterine bleeding, females
    General Information
    Treatment with mitotane can cause nonmalignant, multiple, and bilateral ovarian macrocysts (ovarian cyst) in premenopausal females treated with mitotane; complications have included adnexal torsion and hemorrhagic cyst rupture. Evaluate pelvic ultrasound in premenopausal females at baseline and at regular intervals during treatment; an interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary based on severity. Female patients should seek medical care if abnormal uterine bleeding or pelvic pain occur.
    Headline
    hepatic failure
    General Information
    Mitotane is not recommended for use in patients with severe hepatic impairment or hepatic failure. Mitotane is metabolized through the liver and plasma levels may increase if hepatic function is impaired, although the pharmacokinetics of mitotane have not been studied in these patients. Monitor mitotane levels more frequently in patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment and watch for treatment-related adverse reactions. Treatment with mitotane can also result in hepatotoxicity, including liver injury or liver failure. Monitor liver function tests at baseline, during dose titration, and periodically during treatment as clinically indicated. An interruption of therapy or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary if hepatotoxicity occurs, depending on the severity.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Mitotane can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. Abnormal pregnancy outcomes such as preterm births and early pregnancy loss have been reported in limited postmarketing reports of human patients exposed to mitotane during pregnancy. Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted. If this drug is used during pregnancy, or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug, the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to a fetus. Women of childbearing potential are advised to use effective nonhormonal contraception during treatment and after discontinuation of treatment for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable.
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    Monitor mitotane plasma concentrations more frequently in patients with mild to moderate renal impairment and adjust the dose as clinically appropriate. Mitotane is renally eliminated and decreased renal function may increase mitotane exposure and the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. Mitotane is not recommended for use in patients with severe renal impairment or renal failure. Mitotane is not likely to be dialyzable.
    Headline
    contraception requirements, pregnancy testing, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel patients about the reproductive risk and contraception requirements during mitotane treatment. Mitotane can cause fetal harm or loss if taken by the mother during pregnancy. Females should avoid pregnancy and use effective nonhormonal contraception during and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Females of reproductive potential should undergo pregnancy testing prior to initiation of mitotane. Women who become pregnant while receiving mitotane should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Mitotane has been detected in breast milk. Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in a nursing infant from mitotane, advise women to discontinue breast-feeding during mitotane therapy and after treatment discontinuation for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Mitotane can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. Abnormal pregnancy outcomes such as preterm births and early pregnancy loss have been reported in limited postmarketing reports of human patients exposed to mitotane during pregnancy. Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted. If this drug is used during pregnancy, or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug, the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to a fetus. Women of childbearing potential are advised to use effective nonhormonal contraception during treatment and after discontinuation of treatment for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Mitotane has been detected in breast milk. Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in a nursing infant from mitotane, advise women to discontinue breast-feeding during mitotane therapy and after treatment discontinuation for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable.

Interactions
Abacavir; Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Dolutegravir plasma concentrations may be reduced when administered concurrently with mitotane; thereby increasing the risk for HIV treatment failures or the development of viral-resistance. Data are insufficient to make dosing recommendations; however, predictions regarding this interaction can be made based on the drugs metabolic pathways. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer and dolutegravir is partially metabolized by this isoenzyme.
Abemaciclib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitotane with abemaciclib due to decreased exposure to abemaciclib and its active metabolites, which may lead to reduced efficacy. Consider alternative treatments. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 70% in healthy subjects.
Abiraterone: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of mitotane with abiraterone due to potential for decreased exposure to abiraterone. If coadministration cannot be avoided, increase the frequency of abiraterone administration to twice daily; resume previous abiraterone dosing after mitotane is discontinued. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and abiraterone is a CYP3A4 substrate. In a pharmacokinetic study involving healthy subjects, another strong CYP3A inducer decreased the mean AUC of abiraterone by 55%.
Acalabrutinib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib and mitotane. If coadministration cannot be avoided, increase the acalabrutinib dose to 200 mg PO twice daily. Decreased acalabrutinib exposure may occur. Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. In healthy subjects, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were decreased by 68% and 77%, respectively, when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another strong CYP3A4 inducer for 9 days.
Acetaminophen: (Minor) Use caution if mitotane and acetaminophen are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of acetaminophen. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and acetaminophen is a minor (10% to 15%) CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of acetaminophen.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Minor) Use caution if mitotane and acetaminophen are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of acetaminophen. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and acetaminophen is a minor (10% to 15%) CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of acetaminophen.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin: (Minor) Use caution if mitotane and acetaminophen are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of acetaminophen. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and acetaminophen is a minor (10% to 15%) CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of acetaminophen.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including sedating h1-blockers, may cause additive CNS effects. (Minor) Use caution if mitotane and acetaminophen are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of acetaminophen. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and acetaminophen is a minor (10% to 15%) CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of acetaminophen.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Minor) Use caution if mitotane and acetaminophen are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of acetaminophen. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and acetaminophen is a minor (10% to 15%) CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of acetaminophen.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of dihydrocodeine with mitotane can decrease dihydrocodeine levels, resulting in less metabolism by CYP2D6 and decreased dihydromorphine concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for reduced efficacy of dihydrocodeine and signs of opioid withdrawal; consider increasing the dose of dihydrocodeine as needed. If mitotane is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of dihydrocodeine and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Mitotane is a strong inducer of CYP3A4, an isoenzyme partially responsible for the metabolism of dihydrocodeine. (Minor) Use caution if mitotane and acetaminophen are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of acetaminophen. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and acetaminophen is a minor (10% to 15%) CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of acetaminophen.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including sedating h1-blockers, may cause additive CNS effects. (Minor) Use caution if mitotane and acetaminophen are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of acetaminophen. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and acetaminophen is a minor (10% to 15%) CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of acetaminophen.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including sedating h1-blockers, may cause additive CNS effects. (Minor) Use caution if mitotane and acetaminophen are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of acetaminophen. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and acetaminophen is a minor (10% to 15%) CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of acetaminophen.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including sedating h1-blockers, may cause additive CNS effects. (Minor) Use caution if mitotane and acetaminophen are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of acetaminophen. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and acetaminophen is a minor (10% to 15%) CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of acetaminophen.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including sedating h1-blockers, may cause additive CNS effects. (Minor) Use caution if mitotane and acetaminophen are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of acetaminophen. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and acetaminophen is a minor (10% to 15%) CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of acetaminophen.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including sedating h1-blockers, may cause additive CNS effects. (Minor) Use caution if mitotane and acetaminophen are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of acetaminophen. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and acetaminophen is a minor (10% to 15%) CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of acetaminophen.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including sedating h1-blockers, may cause additive CNS effects. (Minor) Use caution if mitotane and acetaminophen are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of acetaminophen. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and acetaminophen is a minor (10% to 15%) CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of acetaminophen.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with mitotane can decrease codeine levels, resulting in less metabolism by CYP2D6 and decreased morphine concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. If mitotane is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. (Minor) Use caution if mitotane and acetaminophen are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of acetaminophen. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and acetaminophen is a minor (10% to 15%) CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of acetaminophen.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan: (Minor) Use caution if mitotane and acetaminophen are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of acetaminophen. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and acetaminophen is a minor (10% to 15%) CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of acetaminophen.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including sedating h1-blockers, may cause additive CNS effects. (Minor) Use caution if mitotane and acetaminophen are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of acetaminophen. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and acetaminophen is a minor (10% to 15%) CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of acetaminophen.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Minor) Use caution if mitotane and acetaminophen are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of acetaminophen. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and acetaminophen is a minor (10% to 15%) CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of acetaminophen.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) Use caution if mitotane and acetaminophen are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of acetaminophen. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and acetaminophen is a minor (10% to 15%) CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of acetaminophen.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Minor) Use caution if mitotane and acetaminophen are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of acetaminophen. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and acetaminophen is a minor (10% to 15%) CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of acetaminophen.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) Use caution if mitotane and acetaminophen are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of acetaminophen. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and acetaminophen is a minor (10% to 15%) CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of acetaminophen.
Acetaminophen; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including sedating h1-blockers, may cause additive CNS effects. (Minor) Use caution if mitotane and acetaminophen are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of acetaminophen. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and acetaminophen is a minor (10% to 15%) CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of acetaminophen.
Acetaminophen; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Minor) Use caution if mitotane and acetaminophen are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of acetaminophen. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and acetaminophen is a minor (10% to 15%) CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of acetaminophen.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with mitotane can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Additionally, mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS adverse reactions; additive CNS effects may occur initially when mitotane is given concurrently with hydrocodone. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal and/or additive CNS depression; consider adjusting the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If mitotane is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. (Minor) Use caution if mitotane and acetaminophen are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of acetaminophen. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and acetaminophen is a minor (10% to 15%) CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of acetaminophen.
Acetaminophen; Ibuprofen: (Minor) Use caution if mitotane and acetaminophen are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of acetaminophen. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and acetaminophen is a minor (10% to 15%) CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of acetaminophen.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of oxycodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with mitotane is necessary; consider increasing the dose of oxycodone as needed. If mitotane is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of oxycodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Oxycodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease oxycodone concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. (Minor) Use caution if mitotane and acetaminophen are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of acetaminophen. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and acetaminophen is a minor (10% to 15%) CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of acetaminophen.
Acetaminophen; Pamabrom; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including sedating h1-blockers, may cause additive CNS effects. (Minor) Use caution if mitotane and acetaminophen are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of acetaminophen. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and acetaminophen is a minor (10% to 15%) CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of acetaminophen.
Acetaminophen; Phenylephrine: (Minor) Use caution if mitotane and acetaminophen are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of acetaminophen. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and acetaminophen is a minor (10% to 15%) CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of acetaminophen.
Acetaminophen; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) Use caution if mitotane and acetaminophen are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of acetaminophen. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and acetaminophen is a minor (10% to 15%) CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of acetaminophen.
Acoramidis: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of acoramidis and mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease acoramidis exposure which may reduce its efficacy.
Adagrasib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of adagrasib and mitotane due to the risk of decreased adagrasib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Adagrasib is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced adagrasib exposure by more than 66%.
Aficamten: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in aficamten efficacy during concomitant use of aficamten and mitotane; increase the aficamten dosage as appropriate based on response. If mitotane is discontinued, reduce the aficamten dosage by approximately half: 20 mg to 10 mg, 15 mg to 5 mg, 10 mg to 5 mg, or continue 5 mg. Concomitant use may decrease aficamten exposure. Aficamten is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced aficamten overall exposure by 51%.
Albuterol; Budesonide: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and budesonide are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of budesonide and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and budesonide is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of budesonide. Theoretically, inhibition of CYP3A may also be clinically significant for inhaled forms of budesonide, including budesonide nasal spray.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Consider an increased dose of alfentanil and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with mitotane is necessary. If mitotane is discontinued, consider reducing the alfentanil dosage and monitor for evidence of respiratory depression. Coadministration of a CYP3A4 inducer like mitotane with alfentanil, a CYP3A4 substrate, may decrease exposure to alfentanil resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of withdrawal symptoms in a patient who has developed physical dependence to alfentanil. Alfentanil plasma concentrations will increase once the inducer is stopped, which may increase or prolong the therapeutic and adverse effects, including serious respiratory depression.
Alfuzosin: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and alfuzosin are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of alfuzosin and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and alfuzosin is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of alfuzosin.
Aliskiren: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and aliskiren are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of aliskiren and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and aliskiren is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of aliskiren.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and aliskiren are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of aliskiren and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and aliskiren is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of aliskiren.
Almotriptan: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and almotriptan are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of almotriptan and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and almotriptan is a CYP3A4 substrate (approximately 12%); coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of almotriptan.
Alosetron: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and alosetron are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of alosetron and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and alosetron is a minor (18%) CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of alosetron.
Alpelisib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alpelisib with mitotane due to decreased exposure to alpelisib which could decrease efficacy. Alpelisib is a CYP3A4 substrate; mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
ALPRAZolam: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of alprazolam and signs of benzodiazepine withdrawal if coadministration with mitotane is necessary. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease alprazolam concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Additionally, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of alprazolam and mitotane. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Amiodarone: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in amiodarone efficacy during concomitant use of amiodarone and mitotane. Concomitant use may decrease amiodarone exposure. Amiodarone is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Amitriptyline: (Major) Use caution if mitotane and amitriptyline are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of amitriptyline and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and amitriptyline is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amitriptyline. Additionally, mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS adverse reactions; additive CNS effects may occur initially when mitotane is given concurrently with amitriptyline.
amLODIPine: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and amlodipine are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of amlodipine and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Major) Use caution if mitotane and atorvastatin are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of atorvastatin and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and atorvastatin is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of atorvastatin. (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and amlodipine are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of amlodipine and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and amlodipine are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of amlodipine and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and amlodipine are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of amlodipine and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and amlodipine are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of amlodipine and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and amlodipine are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of amlodipine and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and amlodipine are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of amlodipine and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Amobarbital: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants may cause additive CNS effects. Mitotane should be used cautiously with other drugs that may cause CNS depression including barbiturates.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Coadministration of mitotane and clarithromycin may decrease clarithromycin serum concentrations due to CYP3A4 enzyme induction. While the 14-OH-clarithromycin active metabolite concentrations are increased, this metabolite has different antimicrobial activity compared to clarithromycin. The intended therapeutic effect of clarithromycin could be decreased. It is not clear if clarithromycin activity against other organisms would be reduced, but reduced efficacy is possible. Alternatives to clarithromycin should be considered in patients who are taking potent CYP3A4 inducers. (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and omeprazole are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of omeprazole and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and omeprazole is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of omeprazole.
Apremilast: (Major) Avoid coadministration of apremilast with mitotane due to decreased plasma concentrations of apremilast. Apremilast is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the single-dose apremilast AUC and Cmax by 72% and 43%, respectively.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Major) Avoid the concurrent use of mitotane with aprepitant, fosaprepitant due to substantially decreased exposure of aprepitant. If these drugs must be coadministered, monitor for a decrease in the efficacy of aprepitant. After administration, fosaprepitant is rapidly converted to aprepitant and shares the same drug interactions. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and aprepitant is a CYP3A4 substrate. When a single dose of aprepitant (375 mg, or 3 times the maximum recommended dose) was administered on day 9 of a 14-day rifampin (strong CYP3A inducer) regimen, the AUC of aprepitant decreased approximately 11-fold and the mean terminal half-life decreased by 3-fold.
ARIPiprazole: (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and mitotane vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, double the usual dose over 1 to 2 weeks. For extended-release aripiprazole injections administered monthly (Abilify Maintena) and every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), avoid concomitant use. Concomitant use may decrease aripiprazole exposure and reduce efficacy. Aripiprazole is CYP3A substrate; mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and mitotane vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), increase the 441 mg dose to 662 mg; no adjustments are necessary for other dosages. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Concomitant use may decrease aripiprazole exposure and reduce efficacy. Aripiprazole is CYP3A substrate; mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Artemether; Lumefantrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of mitotane and artemether is contraindicated. Mitotane is a strong inducer of CYP3A4 and artemether is a substrate of this isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to decreased artemether concentrations and possible reduction in antimalarial activity. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inducer, rifampin, in 6 HIV and tuberculosis co-infected adults caused reductions in the AUC of artemether, dihydroartemisinin (metabolite of artemether), and lumefantrine by 89%, 85%, and 68%, respectively. (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of mitotane and artemether; lumefantrine is contraindicated. Mitotane is a strong inducer of CYP3A4 and both components of artemether; lumefantrine are substrates of this isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to decreased artemether; lumefantrine concentrations and possible reduction in antimalarial activity. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inducer, rifampin, in 6 HIV and tuberculosis co-infected adults caused reductions in the AUC of artemether, dihydroartemisinin (metabolite of artemether), and lumefantrine by 89%, 85%, and 68%, respectively.
Asciminib: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in asciminib efficacy during concomitant use of asciminib and mitotane. Concomitant use may decrease asciminib exposure. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced asciminib overall exposure by 34%.
Asenapine: (Minor) Use caution if mitotane and asenapine are used concomitantly. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and asenapine is a CYP3A4 substrate in vitro. Coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of asenapine; however, no dosage adjustment of asenapine is necessary.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants may cause additive CNS effects. Mitotane should be used cautiously with other drugs that may cause CNS depression including barbiturates.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Minor) Use caution if mitotane and acetaminophen are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of acetaminophen. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and acetaminophen is a minor (10% to 15%) CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of acetaminophen.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with mitotane can decrease codeine levels, resulting in less metabolism by CYP2D6 and decreased morphine concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. If mitotane is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and omeprazole are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of omeprazole and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and omeprazole is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of omeprazole.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of oxycodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with mitotane is necessary; consider increasing the dose of oxycodone as needed. If mitotane is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of oxycodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Oxycodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease oxycodone concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Atazanavir: (Contraindicated) Atazanavir is contraindicated for use with mitotane. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and atazanavir is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration significantly reduces plasma concentrations of atazanavir, leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Contraindicated) Atazanavir is contraindicated for use with mitotane. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and atazanavir is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration significantly reduces plasma concentrations of atazanavir, leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. (Contraindicated) Coadministration of mitotane with cobicistat is contraindicated. Mitotane is a strong inducer of CYP3A4; cobicistat is a substrate of this enzyme. Concurrent use may result in significant decreases in the plasma concentrations of cobicistat, leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance.
Atogepant: (Major) Avoid use of atogepant and mitotane when atogepant is used for chronic migraine. Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with mitotane is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inducer resulted in a 60% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 30% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Atorvastatin: (Major) Use caution if mitotane and atorvastatin are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of atorvastatin and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and atorvastatin is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of atorvastatin.
Atrasentan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease atrasentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Atrasentan is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced atrasentan trough by 90%.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of diphenoxylate/difenoxin with mitotane can potentiate the CNS-depressant effects of diphenoxylate/difenoxin. Use caution during coadministration.
Avacopan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of avacopan and mitotane due to the risk of decreased avacopan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inducer decreased avacopan overall exposure by 93%.
Avanafil: (Major) The concomitant use of mitotane with avanafil is not recommended; if coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for decreased efficacy of avanafil. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and avanafil is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of avanafil. The potential effect of CYP inducers on avanafil has not been evaluated.
Avapritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with mitotane due to the risk of decreased avapritinib efficacy. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the AUC and Cmax of avapritinib by 92% and 74%, respectively.
Avutometinib; Defactinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease defactinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced defactinib overall exposure by 87%.
Axitinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with mitotane due to the risk of decreased efficacy of axitinib. Selection of a concomitant medication with no or minimal CYP3A4 induction potential is recommended. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4/5 inducer significantly decreased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers.
Azelastine; Fluticasone: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and fluticasone are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of fluticasone and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and fluticasone is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of fluticasone.
Barbiturates: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants may cause additive CNS effects. Mitotane should be used cautiously with other drugs that may cause CNS depression including barbiturates.
Baxdrostat: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in baxdrostat efficacy during concomitant use with mitotane. Concomitant use may decrease baxdrostat exposure. Baxdrostat is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a CYP3A inducer.
Bedaquiline: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of bedaquiline with mitotane due to the potential for decreased efficacy of bedaquiline. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and bedaquiline is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of bedaquiline. When administered concurrently with another strong CYP3A4 inducer (rifampin 600 mg PO daily for 21 days, the bedaquiline AUC decreased by 52% in one study.
Belumosudil: (Major) Increase the dosage of belumosudil to 200 mg PO twice daily when coadministered with mitotane. Belumosudil is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer; concomitant use may result in decreased belumosudil exposure and reduced belumosudil efficacy. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased belumosudil exposure by 72% in healthy subjects.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Concurrent use of benzhydrocodone with mitotane may decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to opioid agonists. If concomitant use is necessary, consider increasing the benzhydrocodone dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of mitotane may increase the risk of increased opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. If mitotane is discontinued, consider a benzhydrocodone dosage reduction and monitor patients for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. Benzhydrocodone is a prodrug of hydrocodone. Mitotane is a strong inducer of CYP3A4, an isoenzyme partially responsible for the metabolism of hydrocodone. (Minor) Use caution if mitotane and acetaminophen are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of acetaminophen. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and acetaminophen is a minor (10% to 15%) CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of acetaminophen.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Major) Concurrent use of lenacapavir for HIV treatment and mitotane is contraindicated due to the risk for reduced lenacapavir exposure, which may lead to loss of therapeutic efficacy and development of resistance. If lenacapavir is used for HIV PrEP and use with mitotane is necessary, supplemental lenacapavir doses are required to maintain effective drug concentrations. On the day mitotane is initiated, which should be at least 2 days after lenacapavir initiation, a supplemental dose of 927 mg subcutaneously and 600 mg orally should be given (Step 1). The following day, an additional oral dose of 600 mg should be administered (Step 2). If mitotane is continued for longer than 6 months, this 2-step supplemental dosing regimen must be repeated every 6 months. After discontinuation of mitotane, the standard 6-month injection schedule for lenacapavir should be resumed. Recommendations are not available for those already on mitotane at the time of lenacapavir initiation or those receiving weekly oral lenacapavir. Lenacapavir is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced lenacapavir overall exposure by 84%.
Bortezomib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of mitotane with bortezomib; if coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for decreased efficacy of bortezomib. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and bortezomib is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of bortezomib.
Bosutinib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of mitotane with bosutinib; if coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for decreased efficacy of bosutinib. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and bosutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of bosutinib. After 6 days of administration of rifampin (600 mg/day), another strong CYP3A4 inducer, to healthy volunteers in a cross-over trial (n = 24), the Cmax and AUC values of bosutinib (single dose) were decreased by 86% and 94%, respectively.
Brentuximab vedotin: (Major) Concomitant use of mitotane with brentuximab vedotin should be undertaken with caution as it could result in decreased plasma concentrations of brentuximab, leading to reduced efficacy. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and monomethyl auristatin E (MMAE), one of the 3 components released from brentuximab vedotin, is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of MMAE. Concomitant administration of brentuximab vedotin and rifampin, another strong CYP3A4 substrate, decreased the exposure of MMAE by approximately 46%.
Brexpiprazole: (Major) If coadministration of mitotane and brexpiprazole is necessary, the brexpiprazole dose should be doubled over 1 to 2 weeks and the patient should be carefully monitored for a decrease in brexpiprazole efficacy. If mitotane is discontinued, the brexpiprazole dose should be reduced to the original level over 1 to 2 weeks. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and brexpiprazole is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of brexpiprazole.
Brigatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of brigatinib with mitotane due to decreased plasma exposure to brigatinib which may result in decreased efficacy. Brigatinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased the AUC and Cmax of brigatinib by 80% and 60%, respectively.
Bromocriptine: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in bromocriptine efficacy during concomitant use of bromocriptine and mitotane. Concomitant use may decrease bromocriptine exposure. Bromocriptine is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Brompheniramine: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including sedating h1-blockers, may cause additive CNS effects.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including sedating h1-blockers, may cause additive CNS effects.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including sedating h1-blockers, may cause additive CNS effects.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including sedating h1-blockers, may cause additive CNS effects.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including sedating h1-blockers, may cause additive CNS effects.
Budesonide: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and budesonide are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of budesonide and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and budesonide is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of budesonide. Theoretically, inhibition of CYP3A may also be clinically significant for inhaled forms of budesonide, including budesonide nasal spray.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and budesonide are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of budesonide and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and budesonide is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of budesonide. Theoretically, inhibition of CYP3A may also be clinically significant for inhaled forms of budesonide, including budesonide nasal spray.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and budesonide are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of budesonide and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and budesonide is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of budesonide. Theoretically, inhibition of CYP3A may also be clinically significant for inhaled forms of budesonide, including budesonide nasal spray.
BUPivacaine Liposomal: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and bupivacaine are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of bupivacaine and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and bupivacaine is a CYP3A4 substrate in vitro; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of bupivacaine.
BUPivacaine: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and bupivacaine are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of bupivacaine and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and bupivacaine is a CYP3A4 substrate in vitro; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of bupivacaine.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and bupivacaine are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of bupivacaine and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and bupivacaine is a CYP3A4 substrate in vitro; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of bupivacaine.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and bupivacaine are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of bupivacaine and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and bupivacaine is a CYP3A4 substrate in vitro; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of bupivacaine. (Minor) Use caution if mitotane and meloxicam are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of meloxicam and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and meloxicam is a minor CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of meloxicam.
Buprenorphine: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and buprenorphine are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of buprenorphine and possible onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to buprenorphine. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and buprenorphine is a CYP3A4 substrate in vitro; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of buprenorphine. This interaction is most significant if the enzyme-inducing agent is added after buprenorphine therapy has begun; buprenorphine doses may need to be increased. Conversely, buprenorphine doses may need to be decreased if mitotane is discontinued, as buprenorphine plasma concentrations may increase and serious respiratory depression could occur.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and buprenorphine are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of buprenorphine and possible onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to buprenorphine. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and buprenorphine is a CYP3A4 substrate in vitro; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of buprenorphine. This interaction is most significant if the enzyme-inducing agent is added after buprenorphine therapy has begun; buprenorphine doses may need to be increased. Conversely, buprenorphine doses may need to be decreased if mitotane is discontinued, as buprenorphine plasma concentrations may increase and serious respiratory depression could occur.
busPIRone: (Major) Use caution if mitotane and buspirone are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of buspirone and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and buspirone is a CYP3A4 substrate in vitro; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of buspirone. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer, rifampin, decreased the buspirone Cmax by 83.7% and AUC by 89.6%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants may cause additive CNS effects. Mitotane should be used cautiously with other drugs that may cause CNS depression including barbiturates. (Minor) Use caution if mitotane and acetaminophen are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of acetaminophen. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and acetaminophen is a minor (10% to 15%) CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of acetaminophen.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants may cause additive CNS effects. Mitotane should be used cautiously with other drugs that may cause CNS depression including barbiturates. (Minor) Use caution if mitotane and acetaminophen are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of acetaminophen. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and acetaminophen is a minor (10% to 15%) CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of acetaminophen.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with mitotane can decrease codeine levels, resulting in less metabolism by CYP2D6 and decreased morphine concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. If mitotane is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants may cause additive CNS effects. Mitotane should be used cautiously with other drugs that may cause CNS depression including barbiturates. (Minor) Use caution if mitotane and acetaminophen are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of acetaminophen. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and acetaminophen is a minor (10% to 15%) CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of acetaminophen.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with mitotane can decrease codeine levels, resulting in less metabolism by CYP2D6 and decreased morphine concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. If mitotane is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants may cause additive CNS effects. Mitotane should be used cautiously with other drugs that may cause CNS depression including barbiturates.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Major) Concomitant use of mitotane with rilpivirine should be undertaken with caution due to potential decreased rilpivirine concentrations, leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. The use of rilpivirine is contraindicated with other specific strong CYP3A inducers, including carbamazepine, oxcarbazepine, phenobarbital, phenytoin, rifampin, rifapentine, and St John's wort. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and rilpivirine is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration may result in decreased rilpivirine serum concentrations, which could cause impaired virologic response to rilpivirine.
Cabozantinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of cabozantinib with mitotane due to the risk of decreased cabozantinib exposure which could affect efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, increase the dose of cabozantinib. For patients taking cabozantinib tablets, increase the dose of cabozantinib by 20 mg (e.g., 60 mg/day to 80 mg/day; 40 mg/day to 60 mg/day); the daily dose should not exceed 80 mg. For patients taking cabozantinib capsules, increase the dose of cabozantinib by 40 mg (e.g., 140 mg/day to 180 mg/day or 100 mg/day to 140 mg/day); the daily dose should not exceed 180 mg. Resume the cabozantinib dose that was used prior to initiating treatment with mitotane 2 to 3 days after discontinuation of mitotane. Cabozantinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased single-dose cabozantinib exposure by 77%.
Capivasertib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capivasertib with mitotane due to decreased capivasertib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Capivasertib is a CYP3A substrate; mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the capivasertib overall exposure by 70%.
Capmatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capmatinib and mitotane due to the risk of decreased capmatinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased capmatinib exposure by 67%.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Use caution if mitotane and carbamazepine are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of carbamazepine and a possible change in dosage requirements. Carbamazepine dosages may need to be adjusted while the patient is receiving mitotane. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and carbamazepine is a CYP3A4 substrate in vitro; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of carbamazepine.
Carbinoxamine: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including sedating h1-blockers, may cause additive CNS effects.
Cariprazine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cariprazine and mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease cariprazine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Cariprazine is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a CYP3A inducer.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Major) Use caution if mitotane and tramadol are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of tramadol and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. The metabolism of tramadol is stereoselective; the (+) enantiomer preferentially undergoes N-demethylation, mediated by CYP3A4 and CYP2B6, and the (-) enantiomer undergoes O-demethylation via CYP2D6. O-demethylation leads to the production of the active metabolite M1, which is critical to tramadol activity. Because of the role of CYP3A4 in tramadol metabolism, coadministration with mitotane may affect patient response to tramadol.
Ceritinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ceritinib with mitotane as ceritinib exposure may be decreased, which may reduce its efficacy. Ceritinib is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inducer decreased ceritinib exposure by 70%.
Chlophedianol; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including sedating h1-blockers, may cause additive CNS effects.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including sedating h1-blockers, may cause additive CNS effects.
Chlorcyclizine: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including sedating h1-blockers, may cause additive CNS effects.
chlordiazePOXIDE: (Major) Use caution if mitotane and chlordiazepoxide are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of chlordiazepoxide and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and chlordiazepoxide is a CYP3A4 substrate in vitro; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of chlordiazepoxide. Additionally, mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS adverse reactions; additive CNS effects may occur initially when mitotane is given concurrently with chlordiazepoxide.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Major) Use caution if mitotane and amitriptyline are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of amitriptyline and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and amitriptyline is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amitriptyline. Additionally, mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS adverse reactions; additive CNS effects may occur initially when mitotane is given concurrently with amitriptyline. (Major) Use caution if mitotane and chlordiazepoxide are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of chlordiazepoxide and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and chlordiazepoxide is a CYP3A4 substrate in vitro; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of chlordiazepoxide. Additionally, mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS adverse reactions; additive CNS effects may occur initially when mitotane is given concurrently with chlordiazepoxide.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Major) Use caution if mitotane and chlordiazepoxide are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of chlordiazepoxide and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and chlordiazepoxide is a CYP3A4 substrate in vitro; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of chlordiazepoxide. Additionally, mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS adverse reactions; additive CNS effects may occur initially when mitotane is given concurrently with chlordiazepoxide.
Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including sedating h1-blockers, may cause additive CNS effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with mitotane can decrease codeine levels, resulting in less metabolism by CYP2D6 and decreased morphine concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. If mitotane is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including sedating h1-blockers, may cause additive CNS effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including sedating h1-blockers, may cause additive CNS effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including sedating h1-blockers, may cause additive CNS effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including sedating h1-blockers, may cause additive CNS effects.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with mitotane can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Additionally, mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS adverse reactions; additive CNS effects may occur initially when mitotane is given concurrently with hydrocodone. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal and/or additive CNS depression; consider adjusting the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If mitotane is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including sedating h1-blockers, may cause additive CNS effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including sedating h1-blockers, may cause additive CNS effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including sedating h1-blockers, may cause additive CNS effects.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including sedating h1-blockers, may cause additive CNS effects.
chlorproMAZINE: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including opiate agonists, may cause additive CNS effects.
Cholera Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the live cholera vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to cholera bacteria after receiving the vaccine.
Cilostazol: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and cilostazol are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of cilostazol and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and cilostazol is a CYP3A4 substrate in vitro; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of cilostazol.
Cisapride: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and cisapride are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of cisapride and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and cisapride is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of cisapride.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Coadministration of mitotane and clarithromycin may decrease clarithromycin serum concentrations due to CYP3A4 enzyme induction. While the 14-OH-clarithromycin active metabolite concentrations are increased, this metabolite has different antimicrobial activity compared to clarithromycin. The intended therapeutic effect of clarithromycin could be decreased. It is not clear if clarithromycin activity against other organisms would be reduced, but reduced efficacy is possible. Alternatives to clarithromycin should be considered in patients who are taking potent CYP3A4 inducers.
Clemastine: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including sedating h1-blockers, may cause additive CNS effects.
Clindamycin: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of clindamycin efficacy with coadministration of mitotane as concurrent use may decrease clindamycin exposure. Clindamycin is a CYP3A4 substrate; mitotane is a strong inducer of CYP3A4.
clomiPRAMINE: (Major) Use caution if mitotane and clomipramine are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of clomipramine and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and clomipramine is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of clomipramine. Additionally, mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS adverse reactions; additive CNS effects may occur initially when mitotane is given concurrently with clomipramine.
clonazePAM: (Moderate) Monitor patients for a change in clonazepam dosage requirements when giving concurrently with mitotane. Clonazepam concentration decreases of approximately 38% have been reported when clonazepam is used with strong CYP3A4 inducers. Clonazepam is a CYP3A4 substrate. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Clorazepate: (Major) Use caution if mitotane and clorazepate are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of clorazepate and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Clorazepate is a pro-drug converted to N-desmethyldiazepam in the GI tract; N-desmethyldiazepam is metabolized by 2C19 and 3A4. Coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of N-desmethyldiazepam. Additionally, mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS adverse reactions; additive CNS effects may occur initially when mitotane is given concurrently with clorazepate.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) The concomitant use of mitotane with clozapine is not recommended; if coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for decreased efficacy of clozapine and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and clozapine is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of clozapine. Additionally, mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS adverse reactions; additive CNS effects may occur initially when mitotane is given concurrently with clozapine.
Cobicistat: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of mitotane with cobicistat is contraindicated. Mitotane is a strong inducer of CYP3A4; cobicistat is a substrate of this enzyme. Concurrent use may result in significant decreases in the plasma concentrations of cobicistat, leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance.
Cobimetinib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of mitotane with cobimetinib due to decreased cobimetinib exposure leading to decreased efficacy. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and cobimetinib is a CYP3A4 substrate in vitro; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of cobimetinib. Based on simulations, cobimetinib exposure would decrease by 83% when coadministered with a strong CYP3A inducer.
Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with mitotane can decrease codeine levels, resulting in less metabolism by CYP2D6 and decreased morphine concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. If mitotane is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with mitotane can decrease codeine levels, resulting in less metabolism by CYP2D6 and decreased morphine concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. If mitotane is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including sedating h1-blockers, may cause additive CNS effects.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with mitotane can decrease codeine levels, resulting in less metabolism by CYP2D6 and decreased morphine concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. If mitotane is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with mitotane can decrease codeine levels, resulting in less metabolism by CYP2D6 and decreased morphine concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. If mitotane is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with mitotane can decrease codeine levels, resulting in less metabolism by CYP2D6 and decreased morphine concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. If mitotane is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including opiate agonists, may cause additive CNS effects.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with mitotane can decrease codeine levels, resulting in less metabolism by CYP2D6 and decreased morphine concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. If mitotane is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including opiate agonists, may cause additive CNS effects.
Conjugated Estrogens: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Conjugated Estrogens; Bazedoxifene: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Conjugated Estrogens; medroxyPROGESTERone: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Copanlisib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of copanlisib and mitotane; decreased copanlisib exposure and loss of efficacy may occur. Copanlisib is a CYP3A substrate; mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Crinecerfont: (Major) Increase the crinecerfont morning and evening doses 2-fold if concomitant use with mitotane is necessary. Concomitant use is expected to decrease crinecerfont exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Crinecerfont is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced crinecerfont overall exposure by 62%.
Crizotinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of crizotinib with mitotane due to decreased plasma concentrations of crizotinib, which may result in decreased efficacy. Crizotinib is primarily metabolized by CYP3A and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the crizotinib AUC and Cmax at steady state by 84% and 79%, respectively.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Closely monitor cyclosporine concentrations and adjust the dose of cyclosporine as appropriate if coadministration with mitotane is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease cyclosporine exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Cyclosporine is extensively metabolized by CYP3A and has a narrow therapeutic index; mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Cyproheptadine: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including sedating h1-blockers, may cause additive CNS effects.
Dapsone: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in hemolysis if coadministration of dapsone with mitotane is necessary; dapsone efficacy may also be compromised. Dapsone is a CYP3A4 metabolite and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Strong CYP3A4 inducers may increase the formation of dapsone hydroxylamine, a metabolite associated with hemolysis. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased dapsone levels by 7-fold to 10-fold; in leprosy, this reduction has not required a change in dosage.
Daraxonrasib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of daraxonrasib and mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease daraxonrasib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, increase the daraxonrasib dosage to 400 mg once daily. Daraxonrasib is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with other strong CYP3A inducers reduced daraxonrasib overall exposure by 50% to 70%.
Daridorexant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of daridorexant and mitotane. Coadministration may decrease daridorexant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Daridorexant is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inducer decreased daridorexant overall exposure by over 50%.
Darunavir: (Contraindicated) Darunavir is contraindicated for use with mitotane due to potential decreased darunavir concentrations, leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and darunavir is a CYP3A4 substrate. When coadministered with another strong CYP3A4 inducer (rifampin 600 mg daily; n = 16), the ratio of darunavir pharmacokinetic parameters was significantly affected as follows (where 1 = no change): Cmax, 0.44 (90% CI, 0.4 to 0.48) and AUC, 0.21 (90% CI, 0.19 to 0.23).
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of mitotane with cobicistat is contraindicated. Mitotane is a strong inducer of CYP3A4; cobicistat is a substrate of this enzyme. Concurrent use may result in significant decreases in the plasma concentrations of cobicistat, leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. (Contraindicated) Darunavir is contraindicated for use with mitotane due to potential decreased darunavir concentrations, leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and darunavir is a CYP3A4 substrate. When coadministered with another strong CYP3A4 inducer (rifampin 600 mg daily; n = 16), the ratio of darunavir pharmacokinetic parameters was significantly affected as follows (where 1 = no change): Cmax, 0.44 (90% CI, 0.4 to 0.48) and AUC, 0.21 (90% CI, 0.19 to 0.23).
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of mitotane with cobicistat is contraindicated. Mitotane is a strong inducer of CYP3A4; cobicistat is a substrate of this enzyme. Concurrent use may result in significant decreases in the plasma concentrations of cobicistat, leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. (Contraindicated) Darunavir is contraindicated for use with mitotane due to potential decreased darunavir concentrations, leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and darunavir is a CYP3A4 substrate. When coadministered with another strong CYP3A4 inducer (rifampin 600 mg daily; n = 16), the ratio of darunavir pharmacokinetic parameters was significantly affected as follows (where 1 = no change): Cmax, 0.44 (90% CI, 0.4 to 0.48) and AUC, 0.21 (90% CI, 0.19 to 0.23).
Dasatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of dasatinib and mitotane due to the potential for decreased dasatinib exposure and reduced efficacy. Consider an alternative to mitotane with less potential for enzyme induction. If coadministration cannot be avoided, consider an increased dose of dasatinib and monitor for toxicity. Dasatinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Concurrent use of another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the mean Cmax and AUC of dasatinib by 81% and 82%, respectively.
Deflazacort: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of deflazacort and mitotane. Concurrent use may significantly decrease concentrations of 21-desDFZ, the active metabolite of deflazacort, resulting in loss of efficacy. Deflazacort is a CYP3A4 substrate; mitotane is a strong inducer of CYP3A4. Administration of deflazacort with multiple doses of rifampin (a strong CYP3A4 inducer) resulted in geometric mean exposures that were approximately 95% lower compared to administration alone.
Dengue Tetravalent Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of the live dengue virus vaccine with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
dexAMETHasone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of dexamethasone if coadministration with mitotane is necessary; consider increasing the dose of dexamethasone if clinically appropriate. Dexamethasone is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including sedating h1-blockers, may cause additive CNS effects.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including sedating h1-blockers, may cause additive CNS effects.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including sedating h1-blockers, may cause additive CNS effects.
Dexchlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including sedating h1-blockers, may cause additive CNS effects.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including sedating h1-blockers, may cause additive CNS effects.
Dexlansoprazole: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and dexlansoprazole are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of dexlansoprazole and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and dexlansoprazole is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of dexlansoprazole.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including sedating h1-blockers, may cause additive CNS effects.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Major) Use caution if mitotane and quinidine are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of quinidine and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and quinidine is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of quinidine. Quinidine concentrations should be monitored closely after mitotane is added to the treatment regimen.
diazePAM: (Major) Use caution if mitotane and diazepam are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of diazepam and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer; diazepam is predominantly metabolized by CYP2C19, but at high concentrations, CYP3A4 is also involved. Coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of diazepam. Additionally, mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS adverse reactions; additive CNS effects may occur initially when mitotane is given concurrently with diazepam.
Diclofenac: (Major) Use caution if mitotane and diclofenac are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of diclofenac and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and diclofenac is a CYP3A4 substrate in vitro; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of diclofenac.
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Major) Use caution if mitotane and diclofenac are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of diclofenac and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and diclofenac is a CYP3A4 substrate in vitro; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of diclofenac.
Dienogest; Estradiol valerate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
dilTIAZem: (Major) Avoid coadministration of diltiazem and mitotane due to decreased plasma concentrations of diltiazem. Diltiazem is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer lowered diltiazem plasma concentrations to undetectable.
dimenhyDRINATE: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including sedating h1-blockers, may cause additive CNS effects.
diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including sedating h1-blockers, may cause additive CNS effects.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including sedating h1-blockers, may cause additive CNS effects.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including sedating h1-blockers, may cause additive CNS effects.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including sedating h1-blockers, may cause additive CNS effects.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of diphenoxylate/difenoxin with mitotane can potentiate the CNS-depressant effects of diphenoxylate/difenoxin. Use caution during coadministration.
Disopyramide: (Major) Use caution if mitotane and disopyramide are used concomitantly, and monitor serum disopyramide concentrations and adjust the dose of disopyramide if necessary. In addition, disopyramide doses may need to be reduced if mitotane is stopped and disopyramide therapy is continued. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and disopyramide is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of disopyramide.
Disulfiram: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and disulfiram are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of disulfiram and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and disulfiram is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of disulfiram.
DOCEtaxel: (Major) Avoid coadministration of docetaxel with mitotane due to decreased plasma concentrations of docetaxel. Docetaxel is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with other strong CYP3A4 inducers increased docetaxel metabolism by 2.6-fold to 32-fold.
Dolutegravir: (Moderate) Dolutegravir plasma concentrations may be reduced when administered concurrently with mitotane; thereby increasing the risk for HIV treatment failures or the development of viral-resistance. Data are insufficient to make dosing recommendations; however, predictions regarding this interaction can be made based on the drugs metabolic pathways. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer and dolutegravir is partially metabolized by this isoenzyme.
Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Dolutegravir plasma concentrations may be reduced when administered concurrently with mitotane; thereby increasing the risk for HIV treatment failures or the development of viral-resistance. Data are insufficient to make dosing recommendations; however, predictions regarding this interaction can be made based on the drugs metabolic pathways. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer and dolutegravir is partially metabolized by this isoenzyme.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Major) Concomitant use of mitotane with rilpivirine should be undertaken with caution due to potential decreased rilpivirine concentrations, leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. The use of rilpivirine is contraindicated with other specific strong CYP3A inducers, including carbamazepine, oxcarbazepine, phenobarbital, phenytoin, rifampin, rifapentine, and St John's wort. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and rilpivirine is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration may result in decreased rilpivirine serum concentrations, which could cause impaired virologic response to rilpivirine. (Moderate) Dolutegravir plasma concentrations may be reduced when administered concurrently with mitotane; thereby increasing the risk for HIV treatment failures or the development of viral-resistance. Data are insufficient to make dosing recommendations; however, predictions regarding this interaction can be made based on the drugs metabolic pathways. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer and dolutegravir is partially metabolized by this isoenzyme.
Donepezil: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and donepezil are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of donepezil and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and donepezil is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of donepezil.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and donepezil are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of donepezil and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and donepezil is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of donepezil.
Doravirine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent administration of doravirine and mitotane is contraindicated due to decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. At least a 4-week cessation period is recommended before initiating treatment with doravirine. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Doravirine; Islatravir: (Contraindicated) Concurrent administration of doravirine and mitotane is contraindicated due to decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. At least a 4-week cessation period is recommended before initiating treatment with doravirine. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Contraindicated) Concurrent administration of doravirine and mitotane is contraindicated due to decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. At least a 4-week cessation period is recommended before initiating treatment with doravirine. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Dordaviprone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease dordaviprone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce dordaviprone overall exposure by 83%.
DOXOrubicin Liposomal: (Major) Concomitant use of mitotane with doxorubicin should be undertaken with caution as it could result in decreased plasma concentrations of doxorubicin, leading to reduced efficacy. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and doxorubicin is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of doxorubicin.
DOXOrubicin: (Major) Concomitant use of mitotane with doxorubicin should be undertaken with caution as it could result in decreased plasma concentrations of doxorubicin, leading to reduced efficacy. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and doxorubicin is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of doxorubicin.
Doxylamine: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including sedating h1-blockers, may cause additive CNS effects.
Doxylamine; Pyridoxine: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including sedating h1-blockers, may cause additive CNS effects.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of dronabinol with mitotane is necessary, and monitor for a decrease in the efficacy of dronabinol. Dronabinol is a CYP2C9 and 3A4 substrate; mitotane is a strong inducer of CYP3A4. Concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of dronabinol.
Dronedarone: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of mitotane with dronedarone; if coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for decreased efficacy of dronedarone. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and dronedarone is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of dronedarone. The AUC and Cmax of dronedarone were significantly reduced when given with rifampin, another strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Drospirenone: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Drospirenone; Estetrol: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Drospirenone; Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Dutasteride; Tamsulosin: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and tamsulosin are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of tamsulosin and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and tamsulosin is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of tamsulosin.
Duvelisib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of duvelisib with mitotane. Coadministration may decrease the exposure of duvelisib, which may reduce the efficacy of duvelisib. Duvelisib is a CYP3A substrate; mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. In drug interaction studies, coadministration of duvelisib with another strong CYP3A inducer for 7 days decreased duvelisib Cmax and AUC by 66% and 82%, respectively.
Efavirenz: (Major) Use caution if mitotane and efavirenz are used concomitantly, as coadministration may significantly reduce plasma concentrations of efavirenz, leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. When efavirenz is coadministered with rifampin, another strong CYP3A4 inducer, it is recommended to increase efavirenz from 600 mg/day to 800 mg/day (patients >= 50 kg). Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and efavirenz is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of efavirenz.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Use caution if mitotane and efavirenz are used concomitantly, as coadministration may significantly reduce plasma concentrations of efavirenz, leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. When efavirenz is coadministered with rifampin, another strong CYP3A4 inducer, it is recommended to increase efavirenz from 600 mg/day to 800 mg/day (patients >= 50 kg). Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and efavirenz is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of efavirenz.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Use caution if mitotane and efavirenz are used concomitantly, as coadministration may significantly reduce plasma concentrations of efavirenz, leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. When efavirenz is coadministered with rifampin, another strong CYP3A4 inducer, it is recommended to increase efavirenz from 600 mg/day to 800 mg/day (patients >= 50 kg). Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and efavirenz is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of efavirenz.
Elacestrant: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of elacestrant and mitotane due to the risk of decreased elacestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Elacestrant is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced elacestrant overall exposure by 86%.
Elagolix: (Moderate) Concomitant use of elagolix and mitotane may result in decreased concentrations of elagolix; monitor for decreased efficacy with coadministration. Elagolix is a CYP3A substrate; mitotane is a strong inducer of CYP3A.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination. (Moderate) Concomitant use of elagolix and mitotane may result in decreased concentrations of elagolix; monitor for decreased efficacy with coadministration. Elagolix is a CYP3A substrate; mitotane is a strong inducer of CYP3A.
Elbasvir; Grazoprevir: (Contraindicated) Concurrent administration of elbasvir; grazoprevir with mitotane is contraindicated due to potential decreased concentrations of both elbasvir and grazoprevir, leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer, while both elbasvir and grazoprevir are substrates of CYP3A.
Eletriptan: (Major) Use caution if mitotane and eletriptan are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of eletriptan and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and eletriptan is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of eletriptan.
Elexacaftor; tezacaftor; ivacaftor: (Major) Coadministration of elexacaftor; tezacaftor; ivacaftor with mitotane is not recommended as concurrent use may decrease exposure of elexacaftor; tezacaftor; ivacaftor. Elexacaftor, tezacaftor, and ivacaftor are CYP3A4 substrates (ivacaftor is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate). Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inducer significantly decreased ivacaftor exposure by 89%; elexacaftor and tezacaftor exposures are expected to also decrease during coadministration of strong CYP3A4 inducers. (Major) Coadministration of ivacaftor with mitotane is not recommended due to decreased plasma concentrations of ivacaftor. Ivacaftor is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer significantly decreased ivacaftor exposure by approximately 9-fold. (Major) Do not administer tezacaftor; ivacaftor and mitotane together; coadministration may reduce the efficacy of tezacaftor; ivacaftor. Exposure to ivacaftor is significantly decreased and exposure to tezacaftor may be reduced by the concomitant use of mitotane, a strong CYP3A inducer; both tezacaftor and ivacaftor are CYP3A substrates (ivacaftor is a sensitive substrate). Coadministration of ivacaftor with a strong CYP3A inducer decreased ivacaftor exposure 89%.
Eliglustat: (Major) The concomitant use of mitotane with eliglustat is not recommended in extensive, intermediate, or poor metabolizers of CYP2D6 (EMs, IMs, PMs). Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer, and eliglustat is a CYP3A substrate. During clinical trials, systemic exposures (Cmax and AUC) of eliglustat decreased by approximately 90% in EMs and IMs after coadministration of eliglustat 127 mg PO twice daily with another strong CYP3A inducer, rifampin (600 mg PO daily). Of note, the only FDA-approved dose of eliglustat is 84 mg. Additionally, systemic exposures decreased by approximately 95% after coadministration of eliglustat 84 mg PO twice daily with rifampin 600 mg PO once daily in PMs.
Elinzanetant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease elinzanetant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced elinzanetant overall exposure by 64%.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of mitotane with cobicistat is contraindicated. Mitotane is a strong inducer of CYP3A4; cobicistat is a substrate of this enzyme. Concurrent use may result in significant decreases in the plasma concentrations of cobicistat, leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. (Major) Use caution if mitotane and elvitegravir are used concomitantly, due to potential decreased concentrations of elvitegravir leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and elvitegravir is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of elvitegravir.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of mitotane with cobicistat is contraindicated. Mitotane is a strong inducer of CYP3A4; cobicistat is a substrate of this enzyme. Concurrent use may result in significant decreases in the plasma concentrations of cobicistat, leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. (Major) Use caution if mitotane and elvitegravir are used concomitantly, due to potential decreased concentrations of elvitegravir leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and elvitegravir is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of elvitegravir.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in linagliptin efficacy during concomitant use of linagliptin and mitotane if coadministration is required. Concomitant use may decrease linagliptin exposure. Linagliptin is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with a strong CYP3A and P-gp inducer reduced linagliptin overall exposure by 0.6-fold.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in linagliptin efficacy during concomitant use of linagliptin and mitotane if coadministration is required. Concomitant use may decrease linagliptin exposure. Linagliptin is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with a strong CYP3A and P-gp inducer reduced linagliptin overall exposure by 0.6-fold.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Concomitant use of mitotane with rilpivirine should be undertaken with caution due to potential decreased rilpivirine concentrations, leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. The use of rilpivirine is contraindicated with other specific strong CYP3A inducers, including carbamazepine, oxcarbazepine, phenobarbital, phenytoin, rifampin, rifapentine, and St John's wort. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and rilpivirine is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration may result in decreased rilpivirine serum concentrations, which could cause impaired virologic response to rilpivirine.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Concomitant use of mitotane with rilpivirine should be undertaken with caution due to potential decreased rilpivirine concentrations, leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. The use of rilpivirine is contraindicated with other specific strong CYP3A inducers, including carbamazepine, oxcarbazepine, phenobarbital, phenytoin, rifampin, rifapentine, and St John's wort. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and rilpivirine is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration may result in decreased rilpivirine serum concentrations, which could cause impaired virologic response to rilpivirine.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of encorafenib and mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease encorafenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Encorafenib is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Ensartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with mitotane due to the risk of decreased ensartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Ensitrelvir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ensitrelvir and mitotane is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased ensitrelvir exposure which may reduce ensitrelvir efficacy potentially resulting in loss of virologic response. Ensitrelvir is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced ensitrelvir overall exposure by 40% to 45%.
Entrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of entrectinib with mitotane due to decreased entrectinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Entrectinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the entrectinib AUC by 77% in a drug interaction study.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitotane with enzalutamide if possible due to decreased enzalutamide exposure which may compromise efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, increase the dose of enzalutamide from 160 mg to 240 mg once daily; the original dose of enzalutamide may be resumed when mitotane is discontinued. Enzalutamide is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the composite AUC of enzalutamide plus N-desmethyl enzalutamide by 37%.
Eplerenone: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and eplerenone are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of eplerenone and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and eplerenone is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of eplerenone. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer, St. John's Wort, resulted in a small (30%) decrease in the AUC of eplerenone.
Eravacycline: (Major) Increase the dose of eravacycline to 1.5 mg/kg IV every 12 hours when coadministered with a strong CYP3A4 inducer, such as mitotane. Concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inducers decreases the exposure of eravacycline, which may reduce its efficacy. When eravacycline was administered with a strong CYP3A4/3A5 inducer, the eravacycline AUC was decreased by 35% and its clearance was increased by 54%.
Erdafitinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and mitotane due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib resulting in decreased efficacy. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Erlotinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erlotinib with mitotane if possible due to the risk of decreased erlotinib efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, increase the dose of erlotinib in 50 mg increments at 2-week intervals as tolerated (maximum dose, 450 mg). Erlotinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased erlotinib exposure by 58% to 80%.
Escitalopram: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and escitalopram are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of escitalopram and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and escitalopram is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of escitalopram.
Esomeprazole: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and esomeprazole are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of esomeprazole and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and esomeprazole is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of esomeprazole.
Estazolam: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and estazolam are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of estazolam and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and estazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of estazolam. Additionally, mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS adverse reactions; additive CNS effects may occur initially when mitotane is given concurrently with estazolam.
Esterified Estrogens: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Esterified Estrogens; methylTESTOSTERone: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Estradiol; Levonorgestrel: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Estradiol; Norethindrone: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Estradiol; Norgestimate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Estradiol; Progesterone: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Estrogens affected by CYP3A inducers: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Eszopiclone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of eszopiclone if coadministration with mitotane is necessary. Eszopiclone is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased racemic zopiclone exposure by 80%; a similar effect would be expected with eszopiclone.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Ethosuximide: (Major) Use caution if mitotane and ethosuximide are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of ethosuximide and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and ethosuximide is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of ethosuximide.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Etonogestrel: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Etravirine: (Major) The concomitant use of mitotane with etravirine is not recommended due to significant decreases in etravirine plasma concentrations and, thus, possible loss of therapeutic effect. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and etravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Everolimus: (Major) Avoid coadministration of everolimus with mitotane due to the risk of decreased efficacy of everolimus. If concomitant use is unavoidable, coadministration requires a dose increase for some indications and close monitoring for others. For oncology indications and tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC)-associated renal angiomyolipoma, double the daily dose using increments of 5 mg or less; multiple increments may be required. For patients with TSC-associated subependymal giant cell astrocytoma (SEGA) and TSC-associated partial-onset seizures, assess the everolimus whole blood trough concentration 2 weeks after initiation of mitotane and adjust the dose as necessary to remain in the recommended therapeutic range. Also closely monitor everolimus whole blood trough concentrations in patients receiving everolimus for either kidney or liver transplant and adjust the dose as necessary to remain in the recommended therapeutic range. Everolimus is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the AUC of everolimus by 63%. For indications where everolimus trough concentrations are monitored, the addition of a second strong CYP3A4 inducer in a patient already receiving treatment with a strong CYP3A4 inducer may not require additional dose modification.
Exemestane: (Major) If coadministration of exemestane with mitotane is necessary, increase the dose of exemestane to 50 mg once daily after a meal. Exemestane is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased exemestane exposure by 54%.
Ezetimibe; Simvastatin: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and simvastatin are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of simvastatin and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and simvastatin is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of simvastatin.
Fedratinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of fedratinib with mitotane as concurrent use may decrease fedratinib exposure which may result in decreased therapeutic response. Fedratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of fedratinib with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the overall exposure of fedratinib by 81%.
Felodipine: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and felodipine are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of felodipine and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and felodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of felodipine.
Fenfluramine: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of fenfluramine and mitotane due to the risk of decreased fenfluramine plasma concentrations, which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for decreased efficacy and consider increasing fenfluramine dose as needed. If mitotane is discontinued during fenfluramine maintenance treatment, consider gradual reduction in the fenfluramine dosage to the dose administered prior to mitotane initiation. Fenfluramine is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Consider an increased dose of fentanyl and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal if concurrent use of mitotane is necessary. If mitotane is discontinued, consider reducing the fentanyl dosage and monitor for evidence of respiratory depression. Coadministration of a CYP3A4 inducer like mitotane with fentanyl, a CYP3A4 substrate, may decrease exposure to fentanyl resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of withdrawal symptoms in a patient who has developed physical dependence to fentanyl. Fentanyl plasma concentrations will increase once the inducer is stopped, which may increase or prolong the therapeutic and adverse effects, including serious respiratory depression.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of fexinidazole and mitotane. Coadministration may increase the risk for fexinidazole-related adverse effects including QT prolongation. Concomitant use may enhance the conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites. Higher metabolite concentrations have been associated with increased risk of QT prolongation. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Finasteride; Tadalafil: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tadalafil with mitotane in patients with pulmonary hypertension due to decreased plasma concentrations of tadalafil. In patients with erectile dysfunction and/or benign prostatic hyperplasia, consider the potential for loss of efficacy of tadalafil during concurrent administration of mitotane due to reduced tadalafil exposure. Tadalafil is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased tadalafil exposure by 88%.
Finerenone: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of finerenone and mitotane due to the risk for decreased finerenone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Finerenone is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased overall exposure to finerenone by 90%.
Flibanserin: (Major) The concomitant use of mitotane with flibanserin is not recommended due to the potential for decreased efficacy of flibanserin. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and flibanserin is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of flibanserin. In a study of 24 healthy female subjects, another strong CYP3A inducer, rifampin (600 mg daily for 7 days), given prior to flibanserin significantly decreased flibanserin exposure by 95%.
fluPHENAZine: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including opiate agonists, may cause additive CNS effects.
Flurazepam: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and flurazepam are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of flurazepam and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and flurazepam is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of flurazepam. Additionally, mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS adverse reactions; additive CNS effects may occur initially when mitotane is given concurrently with flurazepam.
Flutamide: (Major) Use caution if mitotane and flutamide are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of flutamide and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and flutamide is a CYP3A4 substrate in vitro; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of flutamide.
Fluticasone: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and fluticasone are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of fluticasone and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and fluticasone is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of fluticasone.
Fluticasone; Salmeterol: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and fluticasone are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of fluticasone and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and fluticasone is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of fluticasone.
Fluticasone; Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and fluticasone are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of fluticasone and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and fluticasone is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of fluticasone. (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and vilanterol are used concomitantly (including combination products fluticasone; vilanterol and umeclidinium; vilanterol), and monitor for decreased efficacy of vilanterol and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and vilanterol is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of vilanterol.
Fluticasone; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and fluticasone are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of fluticasone and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and fluticasone is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of fluticasone. (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and vilanterol are used concomitantly (including combination products fluticasone; vilanterol and umeclidinium; vilanterol), and monitor for decreased efficacy of vilanterol and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and vilanterol is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of vilanterol.
Food: (Major) Advise patients to avoid cannabis use during mitotane treatment. Concomitant use may decrease the concentration of some cannabinoids and alter their effects. The cannabinoids delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and cannabidiol (CBD) are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use of a cannabinoid product containing THC and CBD at an approximate 1:1 ratio with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased THC, 11-OH-THC, and CBD peak exposures by 36%, 87%, and 52% respectively.
Fosamprenavir: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased fosamprenavir efficacy if coadministered with mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease the plasma concentrations of fosamprenavir leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Fosamprenavir is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased the fosamprenavir overall exposure by 82%.
Fostamatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fostamatinib and mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib, which may reduce its efficacy. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced tamatinib overall exposure by 75%.
Fostemsavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of fostemsavir and mitotane is contraindicated. Use of these drugs together may significantly decrease the plasma concentrations of temsavir, the active moiety of fostemsavir, thereby increasing the risk for HIV treatment failure or development of viral resistance. Temsavir is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Fruquintinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of fruquintinib with mitotane due to decreased fruquintinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Fruquintinib is a CYP3A substrate; mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A inducer decreased fruquintinib exposure by 65%.
Futibatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of futibatinib and mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease futibatinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Futibatinib is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced futibatinib overall exposure by 64%.
Ganaxolone: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ganaxolone and mitotane due to the risk of decreased ganaxolone efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider increasing ganaxolone dose without exceeding the maximum daily dose. Ganaxolone is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased ganaxolone overall exposure by 68%.
Gefitinib: (Major) Increase the dose of gefitinib to 500 mg PO once daily if coadministration with mitotane is necessary. If mitotane is discontinued, gefitinib at a dose of 250 mg once daily may be resumed 7 days later. Gefitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer reduced gefitinib exposure by 83%.
Gepirone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of gepirone and mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease gepirone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced gepirone overall exposure by 29-fold.
Gepotidacin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of gepotidacin and mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease gepotidacin exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Gepotidacin is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced gepotidacin overall exposure by 52%.
Glasdegib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib and mitotane due to the potential for decreased glasdegib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate; mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the glasdegib AUC by 70% in a drug interaction study.
Glecaprevir; Pibrentasvir: (Major) Coadministration of glecaprevir with mitotane is not recommended as mitotane may significantly decrease plasma concentrations of glecaprevir resulting in loss of efficacy. Glecaprevir is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Granisetron: (Major) Use caution if mitotane and granisetron are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of granisetron and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and granisetron is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of granisetron. In a human pharmacokinetic study, hepatic enzyme induction with phenobarbital resulted in a 25% increase in total plasma clearance of IV granisetron; the clinical significance of this change is not known.
guanFACINE: (Major) Mitotane may significantly decrease guanfacine plasma concentrations. FDA-approved labeling for extended-release (ER) guanfacine recommends that, if these agents are taken together, doubling the recommended dose of guanfacine should be considered; if mitotane is added in a patient already receiving guanfacine, this escalation should occur over 1 to 2 weeks. If mitotane is discontinued, decrease the guanfacine ER dosage back to the recommended dose over 1 to 2 weeks. Specific recommendations for immediate-release (IR) guanfacine are not available. Guanfacine is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4, and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Haloperidol: (Major) Use caution if mitotane and haloperidol are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of haloperidol and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and haloperidol is a CYP3A4 substrate in vitro; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of haloperidol. Limited data suggest that rifampin, another potent CYP inducer, can increase the metabolism and/or reduce the bioavailability of haloperidol. In one small study (n=12), plasma levels of haloperidol were decreased by a mean of 70% and mean scores on the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS) were increased from baseline during concurrent use of rifampin; discontinuation of rifampin resulted in a mean 3.3-fold increase in haloperidol concentrations in some instances. In another study (n = 11), patients who received increasing doses of carbamazepine had decreasing haloperidol plasma concentrations in linear proportion to the increasing carbamazepine concentrations. Careful monitoring of clinical status is warranted when CYP3A enzyme inducing drugs are administered or discontinued in haloperidol-treated patients. Additionally, mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS adverse reactions; additive CNS effects may occur initially when mitotane is given concurrently with haloperidol.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with mitotane can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Additionally, mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS adverse reactions; additive CNS effects may occur initially when mitotane is given concurrently with hydrocodone. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal and/or additive CNS depression; consider adjusting the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If mitotane is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with mitotane can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Additionally, mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS adverse reactions; additive CNS effects may occur initially when mitotane is given concurrently with hydrocodone. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal and/or additive CNS depression; consider adjusting the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If mitotane is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Major) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with mitotane can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. Additionally, mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS adverse reactions; additive CNS effects may occur initially when mitotane is given concurrently with hydrocodone. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal and/or additive CNS depression; consider adjusting the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If mitotane is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Hydrocortisone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased corticosteroid efficacy if hydrocortisone is used with mitotane; a hydrocortisone dosage increase may be necessary. Concurrent use may decrease hydrocortisone exposure. Hydrocortisone is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer.
hydrOXYzine: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including sedating h1-blockers, may cause additive CNS effects.
Iberdomide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease iberdomide exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced iberdomide overall exposure by 90%.
Ibrexafungerp: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of ibrexafungerp with mitotane. Use of these drugs together is expected to significantly decrease ibrexafungerp exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Ibrexafungerp is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Ibrutinib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of ibrutinib and mitotane; ibrutinib plasma concentrations may decrease. Ibrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased ibrutinib exposure by more than 10-fold.
Idelalisib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of mitotane with idelalisib; consider alternative agents with less CYP3A4 induction. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and idelalisib is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of idelalisib. In healthy subjects, coadministration of another strong CYP3A inducer, rifampin (600 mg daily for 8 days) with idelalisib (single dose) resulted in a decrease of the geometric mean idelalisib AUC by 75% and geometric mean Cmax by 58% compared with idelalisib alone.
Ifosfamide: (Moderate) Closely monitor for increased ifosfamide-related toxicities (e.g., neurotoxicity, nephrotoxicity) if coadministration with mitotane is necessary; consider adjusting the dose of ifosfamide as clinically appropriate. Ifosfamide is metabolized to its active alkylating metabolites by CYP3A4; mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use may increase the formation of the neurotoxic/nephrotoxic ifosfamide metabolite, chloroacetaldehyde.
Iloperidone: (Major) Use caution if mitotane and iloperidone are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of iloperidone and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and iloperidone is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of iloperidone.
Imatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of imatinib and mitotane if possible due to decreased plasma concentrations of imatinib. If concomitant use is unavoidable, increase the dose of imatinib by at least 50%, carefully monitoring clinical response; imatinib doses up to 1,200 mg per day (600 mg twice daily) have been given to patients receiving concomitant strong CYP3A4 inducers. Imatinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer increased imatinib clearance by 3.8-fold, which significantly decreased the mean Cmax and AUC of imatinib.
Imipramine: (Major) Use caution if mitotane and imipramine are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of imipramine and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and imipramine is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of imipramine. Additionally, mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS adverse reactions; additive CNS effects may occur initially when mitotane is given concurrently with imipramine.
Imlunestrant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and mitotane. If concomitant use is necessary, increase imlunestrant dose to 600 mg daily. Concurrent use may decrease imlunestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced imlunestrant overall exposure by 42%.
Infigratinib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of infigratinib and mitotane. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the AUC of infigratinib by 56%.
Irinotecan Liposomal: (Major) Avoid administration of mitotane during treatment with irinotecan and for at least 2 weeks prior to starting therapy unless there are no therapeutic alternatives. Irinotecan and its active metabolite, SN-38, are CYP3A4 substrates. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A4 inducers substantially reduced exposure to irinotecan or SN-38 in both adult and pediatric patients. An appropriate starting dose for patients taking irinotecan with strong CYP3A4 inducers has not been defined.
Irinotecan: (Major) Avoid administration of mitotane during treatment with irinotecan and for at least 2 weeks prior to starting therapy unless there are no therapeutic alternatives. Irinotecan and its active metabolite, SN-38, are CYP3A4 substrates. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A4 inducers substantially reduced exposure to irinotecan or SN-38 in both adult and pediatric patients. An appropriate starting dose for patients taking irinotecan with strong CYP3A4 inducers has not been defined.
Isavuconazonium: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of isavuconazonium with mitotane is contraindicated due to the potential for decreased isavuconazole serum concentrations and treatment failure. Isavuconazole, the active moiety of isavuconazonium, is a sensitive substrate of hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; mitotane is a strong inducer of this enzyme. According to the manufacturer, coadministration of isavuconazole with strong CYP3A4 inducers is contraindicated. There was a 97% decrease in isavuconazole serum concentrations when coadministered with rifampin, another strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Isradipine: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and isradipine are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of isradipine and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and isradipine is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of isradipine.
Istradefylline: (Major) Avoid coadministration of istradefylline with mitotane as istradefylline exposure and efficacy may be reduced. Mitotane is a strong inducer. Istradefylline exposure was decreased by 81% when administered with a strong inducer in a drug interaction study.
Itraconazole: (Major) The use of mitotane within 2 weeks of itraconazole therapy is not recommended; if coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for decreased efficacy of itraconazole. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and itraconazole is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of itraconazole.
Ivabradine: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of mitotane with ivabradine; if coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for decreased efficacy of ivabradine. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and ivabradine is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of ivabradine.
Ivacaftor: (Major) Coadministration of ivacaftor with mitotane is not recommended due to decreased plasma concentrations of ivacaftor. Ivacaftor is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer significantly decreased ivacaftor exposure by approximately 9-fold.
Ivermectin: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and ivermectin are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of ivermectin and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and ivermectin is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of ivermectin; however, ivermectin is administered as a single dose, and significant clinical interactions are not expected.
Ivosidenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ivosidenib with mitotane due to decreased plasma concentrations of ivosidenib. Ivosidenib is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer is predicted to decrease ivosidenib exposure at steady-state by 33%.
Ixabepilone: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and mitotane due to decreased plasma concentrations of ixabepilone, which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, gradually increase the dose of ixabepilone as tolerated from 40 mg/m2 to 60 mg/m2 and infuse over 4 hours; monitor carefully for ixabepilone-related toxicities. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased ixabepilone exposure by 43%.
Ketoconazole: (Major) Avoid mitotane for 2 weeks prior to and during treatment with ketoconazole. Concomitant use may decrease exposure of ketoconazole and reduce its efficacy. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for decreased efficacy of ketoconazole; a ketoconazole dose increase may be necessary. Ketoconazole is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Lansoprazole: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and lansoprazole are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of lansoprazole and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and lansoprazole is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of lansoprazole.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Coadministration of mitotane and clarithromycin may decrease clarithromycin serum concentrations due to CYP3A4 enzyme induction. While the 14-OH-clarithromycin active metabolite concentrations are increased, this metabolite has different antimicrobial activity compared to clarithromycin. The intended therapeutic effect of clarithromycin could be decreased. It is not clear if clarithromycin activity against other organisms would be reduced, but reduced efficacy is possible. Alternatives to clarithromycin should be considered in patients who are taking potent CYP3A4 inducers. (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and lansoprazole are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of lansoprazole and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and lansoprazole is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of lansoprazole.
Lapatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lapatinib with mitotane due to decreased plasma concentrations of lapatinib. If concomitant use is unavoidable, gradually titrate the dose of lapatinib from 1,250 mg per day to 4,500 mg per day in patients receiving concomitant capecitabine (HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer), and from 1,500 mg per day to 5,500 mg per day in patients receiving concomitant aromatase inhibitor therapy (HR-positive, HER2-positive breast cancer) based on tolerability. If mitotane is discontinued, reduce lapatinib to the indicated dose. Lapatinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased lapatinib exposure by 72%.
Larotrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of larotrectinib with mitotane due to decreased larotrectinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. If coadministration cannot be avoided, double the larotrectinib dose. If mitotane is discontinued, resume the original larotrectinib dose after 3 to 5 elimination half-lives of mitotane. Larotrectinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the larotrectinib AUC by 81% in a drug interaction study.
Lazertinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lazertinib and mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease lazertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Lazertinib is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced lazertinib overall exposure by 83%.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lefamulin with mitotane unless the benefits outweigh the risks as concurrent use may decrease lefamulin exposure and efficacy. Lefamulin is a CYP3A4 substrate; mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the mean AUC of oral and intravenous lefamulin by 72% and 28%, respectively.
Lemborexant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lemborexant and mitotane as concurrent use may decrease lemborexant exposure which may reduce efficacy. Lemborexant is a CYP3A4 substrate; mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Lenacapavir: (Major) Concurrent use of lenacapavir for HIV treatment and mitotane is contraindicated due to the risk for reduced lenacapavir exposure, which may lead to loss of therapeutic efficacy and development of resistance. If lenacapavir is used for HIV PrEP and use with mitotane is necessary, supplemental lenacapavir doses are required to maintain effective drug concentrations. On the day mitotane is initiated, which should be at least 2 days after lenacapavir initiation, a supplemental dose of 927 mg subcutaneously and 600 mg orally should be given (Step 1). The following day, an additional oral dose of 600 mg should be administered (Step 2). If mitotane is continued for longer than 6 months, this 2-step supplemental dosing regimen must be repeated every 6 months. After discontinuation of mitotane, the standard 6-month injection schedule for lenacapavir should be resumed. Recommendations are not available for those already on mitotane at the time of lenacapavir initiation or those receiving weekly oral lenacapavir. Lenacapavir is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced lenacapavir overall exposure by 84%.
Leniolisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of leniolisib and mitotane. Concomitant use may decrease leniolisib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Leniolisib is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced leniolisib overall exposure by 78%.
Levamlodipine: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and amlodipine are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of amlodipine and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Levoketoconazole: (Major) Avoid mitotane for 2 weeks prior to and during treatment with ketoconazole. Concomitant use may decrease exposure of ketoconazole and reduce its efficacy. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for decreased efficacy of ketoconazole; a ketoconazole dose increase may be necessary. Ketoconazole is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Levonorgestrel: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Lidocaine: (Major) Use caution if mitotane and lidocaine are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of lidocaine and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and lidocaine is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of lidocaine.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Major) Use caution if mitotane and lidocaine are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of lidocaine and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and lidocaine is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of lidocaine.
Lidocaine; Prilocaine: (Major) Use caution if mitotane and lidocaine are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of lidocaine and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and lidocaine is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of lidocaine.
Linagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in linagliptin efficacy during concomitant use of linagliptin and mitotane if coadministration is required. Concomitant use may decrease linagliptin exposure. Linagliptin is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with a strong CYP3A and P-gp inducer reduced linagliptin overall exposure by 0.6-fold.
Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in linagliptin efficacy during concomitant use of linagliptin and mitotane if coadministration is required. Concomitant use may decrease linagliptin exposure. Linagliptin is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with a strong CYP3A and P-gp inducer reduced linagliptin overall exposure by 0.6-fold.
Lonafarnib: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of lonafarnib and mitotane is contraindicated; concurrent use may decrease lonafarnib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Lonafarnib is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased the exposure of lonafarnib by 98%.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of lopinavir and mitotane is contraindicated due to the potential for reduced antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for decreased efficacy of lopinavir. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and lopinavir is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of lopinavir. (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of mitotane with ritonavir due to the potential for reduced antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for decreased efficacy of ritonavir. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and ritonavir is a CYP3A4 substrates; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of ritonavir. Another strong CYP3A inducer, rifampin (300 or 600 mg daily for 10 days), decreased the AUC and Cmax of ritonavir (500 mg every 12 hours for 20 days) by 35% and 25%, respectively.
Lorlatinib: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of lorlatinib with mitotane is contraindicated due to the risk of severe hepatotoxicity as well as decreased lorlatinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Discontinue mitotane for 3 plasma half-lives prior to initiating therapy with lorlatinib. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased lorlatinib exposure by 85% and caused severe (grade 3 or 4) hepatotoxicity in 83% of patients.
Losartan: (Major) Use caution if mitotane and losartan are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of losartan and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and losartan is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of losartan. Another strong CYP3A inducer, rifampin, decreased the AUC and half-life of losartan by 35% and 50%, respectively. In addition, rifampin decreased the AUC and half-life for the active metabolite of losartan, E-3174, by 40% and 50%, respectively.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Use caution if mitotane and losartan are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of losartan and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and losartan is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of losartan. Another strong CYP3A inducer, rifampin, decreased the AUC and half-life of losartan by 35% and 50%, respectively. In addition, rifampin decreased the AUC and half-life for the active metabolite of losartan, E-3174, by 40% and 50%, respectively.
Lovastatin: (Major) Use caution if mitotane and lovastatin are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of lovastatin and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and lovastatin is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of lovastatin.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Coadministration of ivacaftor with mitotane is not recommended due to decreased plasma concentrations of ivacaftor. Ivacaftor is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer significantly decreased ivacaftor exposure by approximately 9-fold.
Lumateperone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lumateperone and mitotane as concurrent use may decrease lumateperone exposure which may reduce efficacy. Lumateperone is a CYP3A4 substrate; mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of lumateperone with a strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased lumateperone overall exposure by greater than 30-fold.
Lurasidone: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of lurasidone with strong CYP3A4 inducers, such as mitotane, is contraindicated. Lurasidone is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4. Decreased blood concentrations of lurasidone are expected when the drug is co-administered with inducers of CYP3A4. When a single dose of lurasidone 40 mg was co-administered with another strong CYP3A inducer, rifampin (1200 mg/day for 8 days), the lurasidone Cmax and AUC values were reduced to one-seventh and one-fifth, respectively, of those seen after administration of lurasidone alone.
Lurbinectedin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lurbinectedin and mitotane due to the risk of decreased lurbinectedin exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Lurbinectedin is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Macimorelin: (Major) Discontinue mitotane and allow a sufficient washout period to pass before administering macimorelin. Use of these drugs together can significantly decrease macimorelin plasma concentrations, and may result in a false positive test for growth hormone deficiency. No drug-drug interaction studies have been conducted; however, macimorelin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Macitentan; Tadalafil: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tadalafil with mitotane in patients with pulmonary hypertension due to decreased plasma concentrations of tadalafil. In patients with erectile dysfunction and/or benign prostatic hyperplasia, consider the potential for loss of efficacy of tadalafil during concurrent administration of mitotane due to reduced tadalafil exposure. Tadalafil is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased tadalafil exposure by 88%.
Maraviroc: (Major) Coadministration of maraviroc, a CYP3A substrate, and mitotane, a strong CYP3A inducer, without a concomitant strong CYP3A inhibitor may decrease maraviroc concentrations, therefore, the adult maraviroc dose should be increased to 600 mg PO twice daily when coadministered with mitotane without a concomitant strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of maraviroc and mitotane is contraindicated in patients with CrCl less than 30 mL/min. For pediatric patients, concomitant use of maraviroc with a strong CYP3A inducer, without a strong CYP3A inhibitor, is not recommended. If the patient's medication regimen also contains a strong CYP3A inhibitor, the CYP3A inhibitor's actions are expected to exceed that of the inducer; overall, increased maraviroc concentrations are expected.
Maribavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of maribavir and mitotane. Coadministration may decrease maribavir exposure resulting in reduced virologic response. Maribavir is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased the exposure of maribavir by 60%.
Mavacamten: (Contraindicated) Mavacamten is contraindicated for use with mitotane due to risk for reduced mavacamten efficacy. Concomitant use decreases mavacamten exposure. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. The impact that a CYP3A inducer may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease mavacamten overall exposure by 69% and 87% in poor and normal CYP2C19 metabolizers, respectively.
Mavorixafor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mavorixafor and mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease mavorixafor exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Meclizine: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including sedating h1-blockers, may cause additive CNS effects.
medroxyPROGESTERone: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Mefloquine: (Major) Use caution if mitotane and mefloquine are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of mefloquine and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and mefloquine is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of mefloquine. Another strong CYP3A inducer, rifampin, has been reported to increase the metabolism of mefloquine and reduce mefloquine plasma concentrations in healthy volunteers (decreased mean Cmax by 19% and mean AUC by 68%).
Meloxicam: (Minor) Use caution if mitotane and meloxicam are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of meloxicam and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and meloxicam is a minor CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of meloxicam.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Minor) Use caution if mitotane and meloxicam are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of meloxicam and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and meloxicam is a minor CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of meloxicam.
Methadone: (Major) Use caution if mitotane and methadone are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of methadone and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and methadone is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of methadone. Concurrent administration of another strong CYP3A inducer, rifampin, and methadone is associated with a 33 to 68% decrease in methadone levels due to induction of methadone metabolism by rifampin.
Methohexital: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants may cause additive CNS effects. Mitotane should be used cautiously with other drugs that may cause CNS depression including barbiturates.
Methylergonovine: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in methylergonovine efficacy during concomitant use of methylergonovine and mitotane. Concomitant use may decrease methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer.
methylPREDNISolone: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and methylprednisolone are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of methylprednisolone and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and methylprednisolone is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of methylprednisolone.
metyraPONE: (Major) Mitotane suppresses the activity of the adrenal cortex, and may reduce the adrenal response to metyrapone. The manufacturer of metyrapone recommends that any drug that affects adrenal function be discontinued prior to and during metyrapone testing.
Midazolam: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and midazolam are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of midazolam and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and midazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of midazolam. Additionally, mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS adverse reactions; additive CNS effects may occur initially when mitotane is given concurrently with midazolam.
Midostaurin: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and mitotane as midostaurin exposure may be decreased, which may reduce its efficacy. Midostaurin is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased the exposure of midostaurin and its metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421 by 96%, 92%, and 59%, respectively.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of mitotane with mifepristone due to duplication of pharmacodynamic effects and the potential for serious adrenalcortical insufficiency. The safe and effective use of these drugs together has not been established. Additionally, mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer, and coadministration would be expected to decrease plasma concentrations of mifepristone. Avoid co-administration of mifepristone and CYP3A inducers such as mitotane. Use of mifepristone with CYP3A inducers has not been studied.
Mirtazapine: (Major) Use caution if mitotane and mirtazapine are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of mirtazapine and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and mirtazapine is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of mirtazapine.
Mitapivat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with mitotane due to decreased mitapivat efficacy. Coadministration decreases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased mitapivat overall exposure by 91% to 95%.
Mobocertinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and mitotane. Coadministration may decrease mobocertinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Use of a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 92%.
Modafinil: (Minor) Avoid the concomitant use of mitotane with modafinil; if coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for decreased efficacy of modafinil. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. A non-CYP related pathway is the most rapid in metabolizing modafinil, suggesting that there is a low probability of substantive effects on the overall pharmacokinetic profile of modafinil due to CYP inhibition by concomitant medications; however, due to the partial involvement of CYP3A in modafinil metabolism, there is a potential for decreased plasma concentrations with strong CYP3A inducers such as mitotane.
Montelukast: (Minor) Mitotane may reduce the systemic exposure of montelukast. However, dosage adjustment is not likely to be needed. If used together, the manufacturer recommends monitoring for proper montelukast effectiveness as a precaution. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Montelukast is metabolized by CYP2C8 (primary), and also CYP2C9 and CYP3A4.
Naldemedine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of naldemedine with strong CYP3A4 inducers. Naldemedine is metabolized primarily by the CYP3A enzyme system. Strong CYP3A4 inducers, such as mitotane, significantly decrease plasma naldemedine concentrations and may decrease the efficacy of naldemedine treatment.
Naloxegol: (Major) Coadministration of naloxegol with mitotane is not recommended due to the potential for decreased naloxegol efficacy. Naloxegol is a CYP3A4 substrate; mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased naloxegol exposure by 89%.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound PACLitaxel: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of nab-paclitaxel if coadministration with mitotane is necessary due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of paclitaxel. Nab-paclitaxel is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound Sirolimus: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sirolimus and mitotane as use may decrease sirolimus exposure and efficacy. Sirolimus is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and esomeprazole are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of esomeprazole and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and esomeprazole is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of esomeprazole.
Nefazodone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of nefazodone if coadministration with mitotane is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease nefazodone exposure. Nefazodone is a primary CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased nefazodone and hydroxynefazodone exposure by almost 95%.
Nelfinavir: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of nelfinavir and mitotane is contraindicated due to the potential for subtherapeutic antiretroviral activity and the subsequent possibility for the development of resistant HIV mutations. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and nelfinavir is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of nelfinavir. When administered with another strong CYP3A inducer, rifampin, the plasma AUC, Cmax, and Cmin of nelfinavir decreased by 83%, 76%, and 92%, respectively.
Nerandomilast: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of nerandomilast and mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease nerandomilast exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Nerandomilast is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased nerandomilast overall exposure by 51%.
Neratinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mitotane with neratinib due to decreased efficacy of neratinib. Neratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased neratinib exposure by 87%, while exposure to active metabolites M6 and M7 were reduced by 37% to 49%. Concomitant use with other strong inducers of CYP3A4 may also decrease neratinib concentrations.
Netupitant, Fosnetupitant; Palonosetron: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of mitotane with netupitant; palonosetron; if coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for decreased efficacy of netupitant; palonosetron. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Palonosetron is metabolized via multiple CYP isoenzymes, including CYP3A4, however, netupitant is primarily metabolized via CYP3A4; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of netupitant. (Minor) Use caution if mitotane and palonosetron are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of palonosetron and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Palonosetron is metabolized via multiple CYP isoenzymes, including CYP3A4; coadministration may theoretically result in decreased plasma concentrations of palonosetron, however, the potential for clinically significant drug interactions appears to be low.
Nevirapine: (Moderate) Use caution and monitor for decreased efficacy of nevirapine if coadministered with mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease the plasma concentrations of nevirapine leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Nevirapine is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased nevirapine exposure by greater than 50%.
NIFEdipine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nifedipine and mitotane and consider alternative therapy if possible. If coadministration is necessary, monitor the patient closely for desired cardiovascular effects on heart rate, blood pressure, or chest pain. The FDA-approved labeling for some nifedipine products contraindicates coadministration with strong CYP3A4 inducers, while other manufacturers classify the recommendation as a warning. Nifedipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of nifedipine with another strong CYP3A4 inducer reduced the AUC and Cmax of nifedipine by approximately 70%.
Nilotinib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of nilotinib and mitotane; significantly decreased nilotinib exposure and reduced nilotinib efficacy may occur. Nilotinib is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. In a drug interaction study, coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased nilotinib exposure by approximately 80%.
niMODipine: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of mitotane with nimodipine; if coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for decreased efficacy of nimodipine. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of nimodipine.
Niraparib; Abiraterone: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of mitotane with abiraterone due to potential for decreased exposure to abiraterone. If coadministration cannot be avoided, increase the frequency of abiraterone administration to twice daily; resume previous abiraterone dosing after mitotane is discontinued. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and abiraterone is a CYP3A4 substrate. In a pharmacokinetic study involving healthy subjects, another strong CYP3A inducer decreased the mean AUC of abiraterone by 55%.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of mitotane with ritonavir due to the potential for reduced antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for decreased efficacy of ritonavir. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and ritonavir is a CYP3A4 substrates; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of ritonavir. Another strong CYP3A inducer, rifampin (300 or 600 mg daily for 10 days), decreased the AUC and Cmax of ritonavir (500 mg every 12 hours for 20 days) by 35% and 25%, respectively. (Moderate) Monitor for a diminished response to nirmatrelvir if concomitant use of mitotane is necessary. Concomitant use of nirmatrelvir and mitotane may reduce the therapeutic effect of nirmatrelvir. Nirmatrelvir is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Nirogacestat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of nirogacestat and mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease nirogacestat exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Nirogacestat is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce nirogacestat overall exposure by 85%.
Nisoldipine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nisoldipine with mitotane due to decreased plasma concentrations of nisoldipine. Alternative antihypertensive therapy should be considered. Nisoldipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and mititane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer lowered nisoldipine plasma concentrations to undetectable levels.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Norethindrone: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Norgestrel: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Nortriptyline: (Major) Use caution if mitotane and nortriptyline are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of nortriptyline and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and nortriptyline is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of nortriptyline. Additionally, mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS adverse reactions; additive CNS effects may occur initially when mitotane is given concurrently with nortriptyline.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Major) Avoid the concurrent use of samidorphan and mitotane; decreased samidorphan exposure and loss of efficacy may occur. Samidorphan is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inducer reduced samidorphan exposure by 73%.
Olaparib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of olaparib with mitotane due to the risk of decreasing the efficacy of olaparib. Olaparib is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer; concomitant use may decrease olaparib exposure. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased the olaparib Cmax by 71% and the AUC by 87%.
Oliceridine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of oliceridine and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with mitotane is necessary; consider increasing the dose of oliceridine as needed. If mitotane is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of oliceridine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Oliceridine is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease the plasma concentrations of oliceridine; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and amlodipine are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of amlodipine and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Olutasidenib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of olutasidenib and mitotane due to the risk of decreased olutasidenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Olutasidenib is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced olutasidenib exposure by approximately 80%.
Omaveloxolone: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of omaveloxolone and mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease omaveloxolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Omeprazole: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and omeprazole are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of omeprazole and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and omeprazole is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of omeprazole.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Major) Use caution if mitotane and rifabutin are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of rifabutin and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and rifabutin is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of rifabutin. (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and omeprazole are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of omeprazole and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and omeprazole is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of omeprazole.
Omeprazole; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and omeprazole are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of omeprazole and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and omeprazole is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of omeprazole.
Ondansetron: (Minor) Use caution if mitotane and ondansetron are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of ondansetron and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and ondansetron is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of ondansetron. During pharmacokinetic studies, patients treated with strong CYP3A inducers (i.e., phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin) and ondansetron had significantly increased ondansetron clearance, resulting in significant reductions in AUC, Cmax, and half-life. However, these changes in ondansetron exposure are not thought to be clinically relevant.
Orforglipron: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of orforglipron and mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease orforglipron exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Orforglipron is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced orforglipron overall exposure by 82%.
Osilodrostat: (Major) Monitor cortisol concentrations and the patient's signs and symptoms closely. Use of mitotane may decrease osilodrostat exposure via CYP induction. Similar pharmacodynamic actions may increase the risk for adrenal insufficiency. Dosage adjustments may be needed. Osilodrostat is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. In addition, mitotane suppresses adrenal activity and may have additive effects with olisodrostat on cortisol levels, but via a different mechanism. Patients should be aware of the symptoms of hypocortisolism and adrenal insufficiency and immediately report if they occur. After discontinuation of mitotane, monitor cortisol concentration and patient's signs and symptoms; a reduction in osilodrostat dose may be needed.
Osimertinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitotane with osimertinib due to decreased plasma concentrations of osimertinib which may lead to reduced efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, increase the dose of osimertinib to 160 mg once daily. If mitotane is discontinued, reduce the dose of osimertinib to 80 mg once daily after a washout period of 3 weeks. Osimertinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased osimertinib exposure by 78%.
Ospemifene: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and ospemifene are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of ospemifene. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and ospemifene is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of ospemifene and a resultant decrease in clinical effect.
Oveporexton: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of oveporexton and mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease oveporexton exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Oveporexton is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced oveporexton overall exposure by 81%.
OXcarbazepine: (Moderate) Monitor MHD, the active metabolite of oxcarbazepine, concentrations during oxcarbazepine dosage titration if mitotane and oxcarbazepine are used concurrently. A dose adjustment of oxcarbazepine may be required after initiation, dosage modification, or discontinuation of mitotane. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A4 inducers decreased concentrations of MHD by 25% to 40%.
oxyBUTYnin: (Moderate) Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and oxybutynin is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of oxybutynin. If these drugs are used together, monitor patients for decreased oxybutynin efficacy; oxybutynin dosage adjustments may be needed.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of oxycodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with mitotane is necessary; consider increasing the dose of oxycodone as needed. If mitotane is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of oxycodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Oxycodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease oxycodone concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
PACLitaxel: (Major) Concomitant use of mitotane with paclitaxel should be undertaken with caution as it could result in decreased plasma concentrations of paclitaxel, leading to reduced efficacy. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and paclitaxel is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of paclitaxel.
Pacritinib: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of pacritinib with mitotane is contraindicated due to decreased pacritinib exposure which may impair efficacy. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased pacritinib exposure by 87%.
Palbociclib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitotane with palbociclib due to decreased plasma concentrations of palbociclib, which may result in decreased efficacy. Palbociclib is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. In a drug interaction trial, coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the AUC and Cmax of palbociclib by 85% and 70%, respectively.
Paliperidone: (Major) Avoid using a strong inducer of CYP3A4 if possible during the 1-month injectable dosing interval of Invega Sustenna or the 3-month injectable dosing interval of Invega Trinza. If use of a strong CYP3A4 inducer such as mitotane is required in patients receiving injectable paliperidone, consider management with oral paliperidone. Paliperidone is a P-gp substrate, with minor contributions in metabolism by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6. A dosage increase of oral paliperidone may be required during coadministration of a strong inducer of both CYP3A4 and P-gp. However, concurrent use of oral paliperidone with a strong CYP3A4 inducer alone may not be clinically relevant since in vivo studies show this isoenzyme contributes to only a small fraction of total body clearance.
Palonosetron: (Minor) Use caution if mitotane and palonosetron are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of palonosetron and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Palonosetron is metabolized via multiple CYP isoenzymes, including CYP3A4; coadministration may theoretically result in decreased plasma concentrations of palonosetron, however, the potential for clinically significant drug interactions appears to be low.
Palovarotene: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of palovarotene and mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease palovarotene exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Palovarotene is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced palovarotene overall exposure by 11%.
Paltusotine: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in paltusotine efficacy during concomitant use of paltusotine and mitotane; increase the paltusotine dosage as appropriate based on response. When increasing the paltusotine dosage, do not exceed 3x the prior dose or 120 mg daily, whichever is less. Concomitant use may decrease paltusotine exposure. Paltusotine is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced paltusotine overall exposure by 70%.
Panobinostat: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of mitotane with panobinostat due to decreased exposure and possible decreased efficacy. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and panobinostat is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of panobinostat. An approximately 70% decrease in the systemic exposure of panobinostat in the presence of strong inducers of CYP3A was observed in simulations using mechanistic models.
Paricalcitol: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and paricalcitol are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of paricalcitol and a possible change in dosage requirements. Clinicians should monitor plasma iPTH and serum calcium and phosphorous concentrations when mitotane is initiated or discontinued. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and paricalcitol is partially metabolized by CYP3A4; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of paricalcitol.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of mitotane with pazopanib due to decreased exposure and possible decreased efficacy. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and pazopanib is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of pazopanib.
Pemigatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pemigatinib and mitotane due to the risk of decreased pemigatinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Pemigatinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased pemigatinib exposure by 85%.
PENTobarbital: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants may cause additive CNS effects. Mitotane should be used cautiously with other drugs that may cause CNS depression including barbiturates.
Perampanel: (Major) Start perampanel at a higher initial dose of 4 mg once daily at bedtime when using concurrently with mitotane due to a potential reduction in perampanel plasma concentration. If introduction or withdrawal of mitotane occurs during perampanel therapy, closely monitor patient response; a dosage adjustment may be necessary. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer, and perampanel is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and amlodipine are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of amlodipine and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Perphenazine: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including opiate agonists, may cause additive CNS effects.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Major) Use caution if mitotane and amitriptyline are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of amitriptyline and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and amitriptyline is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amitriptyline. Additionally, mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS adverse reactions; additive CNS effects may occur initially when mitotane is given concurrently with amitriptyline. (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including opiate agonists, may cause additive CNS effects.
Pexidartinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pexidartinib with mitotane as concurrent use may decrease pexidartinib exposure which may result in decreased therapeutic response. Pexidartinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased pexidartinib exposure by 65%.
PHENobarbital: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants may cause additive CNS effects. Mitotane should be used cautiously with other drugs that may cause CNS depression including barbiturates.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants may cause additive CNS effects. Mitotane should be used cautiously with other drugs that may cause CNS depression including barbiturates.
Phenothiazines: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including opiate agonists, may cause additive CNS effects.
Pimavanserin: (Major) Because pimavanserin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, the manufacturer recommends avoiding concomitant use of pimavanserin with strong CYP3A4 inducers, such as mitotane. Strong inducers of CYP3A4 can reduce pimavanserin exposure, potentially decreasing the effectiveness of pimavanserin.
Pirtobrutinib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of pirtobrutinib and mitotane due to the risk of decreased pirtobrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Pirtobrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced pirtobrutinib overall exposure by 71%.
Pitolisant: (Major) For patients on a stable dose of pitolisant 8.9 mg or 17.8 mg once daily, double the original daily dose of pitolisant (i.e., 17.8 mg or 35.6 mg, respectively) over 7 days if concurrent use with mitotane is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease pitolisant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Pitolisant is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced pitolisant overall exposure by 50%.
Polatuzumab Vedotin: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased polatuzumab vedotin efficacy during coadministration of mitotane due to the risk of decreased exposure to the cytotoxic component of polatuzumab vedotin, MMAE. MMAE is metabolized by CYP3A4; mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Strong CYP3A4 inducers are predicted to decrease the exposure of MMAE by 63%.
PONATinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ponatinib with mitotane due to decreased plasma concentrations of ponatinib. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor for reduced efficacy of ponatinib. Ponatinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased ponatinib exposure by 62%.
Pralsetinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitotane with pralsetinib due to the risk of decreased pralsetinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, double the current dose of pralsetinib starting on day 7 of coadministration. After mitotane has been discontinued for at least 14 days, resume the pralsetinib dose taken prior to initiating mitotane. Pralsetinib is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased the pralsetinib AUC by 68%.
Praziquantel: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of praziquantel and mitotane is contraindicated due to the risk of decreased praziquantel exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Praziquantel is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. In a crossover study with a 2-week washout period, administration of praziquantel followed by another strong CYP3A inducer resulted in undetectable plasma concentrations of praziquantel in 7 out of 10 subjects. When praziquantel was administered 2 weeks after discontinuation of the strong inducer, the mean praziquantel AUC was 23% lower than when praziquantel was given alone.
prednisoLONE: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and prednisolone are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of prednisolone and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and prednisolone is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of prednisolone.
predniSONE: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and prednisone are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of prednisone and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and prednisone is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of prednisone.
Pretomanid: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with mitotane as concurrent use may decrease pretomanid exposure which may lead to decreased efficacy. Pretomanid is a CYP3A4 substrate; mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased pretomanid exposure by 66%.
Primidone: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants may cause additive CNS effects. Mitotane should be used cautiously with other drugs that may cause CNS depression including barbiturates.
Prochlorperazine: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including opiate agonists, may cause additive CNS effects.
Progesterone: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Progestins: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Promethazine: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including opiate agonists, may cause additive CNS effects.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including opiate agonists, may cause additive CNS effects.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including opiate agonists, may cause additive CNS effects.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including sedating h1-blockers, may cause additive CNS effects.
Quazepam: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and quazepam are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of quazepam and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and quazepam is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of quazepam. Additionally, mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS adverse reactions; additive CNS effects may occur initially when mitotane is given concurrently with quazepam.
QUEtiapine: (Major) Use caution if mitotane and quetiapine are used concomitantly. If quetiapine is used with chronic (> 7 to 10 days) mitotane treatment, increase the dose of quetiapine by up to 5-fold, based on clinical response and tolerability. When mitotane is discontinued, reduce the dose of quetiapine to the original level within 7 to 14 days. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and quetiapine is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of quetiapine. Additionally, mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS adverse reactions; additive CNS effects may occur initially when mitotane is given concurrently with quetiapine.
quiNIDine: (Major) Use caution if mitotane and quinidine are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of quinidine and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and quinidine is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of quinidine. Quinidine concentrations should be monitored closely after mitotane is added to the treatment regimen.
quiNINE: (Major) Use caution if mitotane and quinine are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of quinine and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and quinine is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of quinine. Another strong CYP3A inducer, rifampin, has been shown to significantly decreases the AUC (75% to 85%) and Cmax (55%) of quinine, resulting in treatment failures; concomitant use should be avoided.
Quizartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mitotane with quizartinib due to the risk of decreased quizartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer.
RABEprazole: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and rabeprazole are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of rabeprazole and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and rabeprazole is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of rabeprazole.
Ramelteon: (Major) Use caution if mitotane and ramelteon are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of ramelteon and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and ramelteon is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of ramelteon. Administration of another strong CYP inducer, rifampin, for 11 days resulted in a mean decrease of approximately 80% (40% to 90%) in total exposure to ramelteon and metabolite M-II, (both AUC and Cmax) after a single 32 mg dose of ramelteon.
Ranolazine: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of mitotane with ranolazine is contraindicated due to decreased ranolazine exposure and efficacy. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and ranolazine is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of ranolazine.
Regorafenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of regorafenib with mitotane due to decreased plasma concentrations of regorafenib and increased plasma concentrations of the M-5 active metabolite, which may lead to decreased efficacy. Regorafenib is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the mean AUC of regorafenib by 50% and increased the mean AUC of M-5 by 264%; no change in the mean AUC of M-2 was observed.
Relacorilant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of relacorilant and mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease relacorilant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Relacorilant is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Remibrutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease remibrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced remibrutinib overall exposure by 77%.
Repaglinide: (Major) Use caution if mitotane and repaglinide are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of repaglinide and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and repaglinide is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of repaglinide. When administered with another strong CYP3A inducer, rifampin, repaglinide AUC decreased by 31% and Cmax by 26%.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with mitotane due to decreased repotrectinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate; mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased repotrectinib overall exposure by 92%.
Revumenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of revumenib and mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease revumenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Additionally, concomitant use may increase exposure to M1, the active metabolite of revumenib, which may increase the risk for adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Revumenib is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Ribociclib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitotane with ribociclib due to decreased ribociclib exposure resulting decreased efficacy. Ribociclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased ribociclib exposure in healthy subjects by 89%.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitotane with ribociclib due to decreased ribociclib exposure resulting decreased efficacy. Ribociclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased ribociclib exposure in healthy subjects by 89%.
Rifabutin: (Major) Use caution if mitotane and rifabutin are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of rifabutin and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and rifabutin is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of rifabutin.
Rilpivirine: (Major) Concomitant use of mitotane with rilpivirine should be undertaken with caution due to potential decreased rilpivirine concentrations, leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. The use of rilpivirine is contraindicated with other specific strong CYP3A inducers, including carbamazepine, oxcarbazepine, phenobarbital, phenytoin, rifampin, rifapentine, and St John's wort. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and rilpivirine is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration may result in decreased rilpivirine serum concentrations, which could cause impaired virologic response to rilpivirine.
Rilzabrutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 80%.
Rimegepant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with mitotane; concurrent use may significantly decrease rimegepant exposure which may result in loss of efficacy. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of rimegepant with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased rimegepant exposure by 80%.
Riociguat: (Major) Use caution if mitotane and riociguat are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of riociguat and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and riociguat is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of riociguat.
Ripretinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ripretinib with mitotane. Coadministration may decrease the exposure of ripretinib and its active metabolite (DP-5439), which may decrease ripretinib anti-tumor activity. Ripretinib and DP-5439 are metabolized by CYP3A4 and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased ripretinib exposure by 61% and decreased DP-5439 exposure by 57%.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in risperidone efficacy during concomitant use of risperidone and mitotane and increase risperidone dosage as appropriate based on response. For patients receiving long-acting risperidone dosage forms, supplemental oral risperidone may be required. Concomitant use may decrease risperidone exposure. Risperidone is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced risperidone overall exposure by 50%.
Ritlecitinib: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in ritlecitinib efficacy during concomitant use of ritlecitinib and mitotane. Concomitant use may decrease ritlecitinib exposure. Ritlecitinib is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced ritlecitinib overall exposure by 0.56-fold.
Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of mitotane with ritonavir due to the potential for reduced antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for decreased efficacy of ritonavir. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and ritonavir is a CYP3A4 substrates; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of ritonavir. Another strong CYP3A inducer, rifampin (300 or 600 mg daily for 10 days), decreased the AUC and Cmax of ritonavir (500 mg every 12 hours for 20 days) by 35% and 25%, respectively.
Rivaroxaban: (Major) Use caution if mitotane and rivaroxaban are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of rivaroxaban and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and rivaroxaban is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of rivaroxaban.
Roflumilast: (Major) Concomitant use of mitotane with roflumilast is not recommended; if coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for decreased efficacy of roflumilast. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and roflumilast is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of roflumilast. In an open-label, three-period, fixed-sequence study in 15 healthy volunteers, coadministration of another strong CYP3A inducer, rifampin (600 mg once daily for 11 days), with a single oral dose of roflumilast 500 mcg resulted in reduction of roflumilast Cmax and AUC by 68% and 79%, respectively. The pharmacokinetics of the active metabolite roflumilast N-oxide were also affected; roflumilast N-oxide Cmax was increased by 30% and AUC was decreased by 56%.
Rolapitant: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of mitotane with rolapitant; if coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for decreased efficacy of rolapitant. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and rolapitant is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of rolapitant. When another strong CYP3A4 inducer, rifampin (600 mg once daily), was administered for 7 days before and 7 days after a single dose of rolapitant (180 mg), the mean Cmax and AUC of rolapitant were decreased by 30% and 85%, respectively; additionally, the mean half-life decreased from 176 hours to 41 hours.
romiDEPsin: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of mitotane with romidepsin due to possible decreases in exposure and efficacy. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and romidepsin is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of romidepsin. Formal drug interaction studies have not been completed for romidepsin.
ROPivacaine: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and ropivacaine are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of ropivacaine and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Ropivacaine is a CYP3A4 substrate, although inhibition of this enzyme does not lead to clinically relevant changes in ropivacaine clearance; coadministration may theoretically result in decreased plasma concentrations of ropivacaine.
Ruxolitinib: (Moderate) Monitor patients frequently and adjust the ruxolitinib dose based on safety and efficacy if coadministered with mitotane; decreased ruxolitinib exposure is possible. Ruxolitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased ruxolitinib Cmax and AUC by 32% and 61%, respectively. The relative exposure to ruxolitinib's active metabolites increased approximately 100%.
Saquinavir: (Major) Concomitant use of mitotane with saquinavir should be undertaken with caution due to potential decreased saquinavir concentrations, leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and saquinavir is a CYP3A4 substrate.
SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) vaccines: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) mRNA Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) Recombinant Spike Protein Nanoparticle Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
Sebetralstat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sebetralstat and mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease sebetralstat exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sebetralstat is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced sebetralstat overall exposure by 83%.
Secobarbital: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants may cause additive CNS effects. Mitotane should be used cautiously with other drugs that may cause CNS depression including barbiturates.
Sedating H1-blockers: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including sedating h1-blockers, may cause additive CNS effects.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during treatment with mitotane and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mitotane, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Selegiline: (Moderate) Use caution if selegiline and mitotane are used concomitantly. Although mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and selegiline is a CYP3A4 substrate, adequate studies have not been conducted to evaluate its effect, if any, on the effectiveness of selegiline.
Selpercatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of selpercatinib and mitotane due to the risk of decreased selpercatinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Selpercatinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased selpercatinib exposure by 87%.
Selumetinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of selumetinib and mitotane due to the risk of decreased selumetinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Selumetinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased selumetinib exposure by 51%.
Sevabertinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease sevabertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced sevabertinib overall exposure by 79%.
Sildenafil: (Major) Use caution if mitotane and sildenafil are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of sildenafil and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and sildenafil is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of sildenafil. Population pharmacokinetic analysis of data from patients in clinical trials indicated approximately 3-fold the sildenafil clearance when it was co-administered with mild CYP3A inducers.
Silodosin: (Major) Use caution if mitotane and silodosin are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of silodosin and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and silodosin is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of silodosin.
Simvastatin: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and simvastatin are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of simvastatin and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and simvastatin is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of simvastatin.
Siponimod: (Moderate) Concomitant use of siponimod and mitotane is not recommended for patients with CYP2C9*1/*3 and *2/*3 genotypes due to a significant decrease in siponimod exposure. Use of siponimod with mitotane is not recommended in any patient if they are also receiving a moderate CYP2C9 inducer. Siponimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A4 substrate; mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with a moderate CYP2C9/strong CYP3A4 dual inducer decreased siponimod exposure by 57%.
Sirolimus: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sirolimus and mitotane as use may decrease sirolimus exposure and efficacy. Sirolimus is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Sodium Iodide I-131: (Moderate) Monitor for bone marrow suppression during concomitant use of sodium iodide I-131 and antineoplastic agents. Concomitant use of bone marrow depressants may enhance the depression of the hematopoietic system caused by the use of large doses of sodium iodide I-131.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of velpatasvir with mitotane. Taking these drugs together may significantly decrease velpatasvir plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in loss of antiviral efficacy. Velpatasvir is a CYP3A4 substrate; mitotane is a potent inducer of CYP3A4.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir; Voxilaprevir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of velpatasvir with mitotane. Taking these drugs together may significantly decrease velpatasvir plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in loss of antiviral efficacy. Velpatasvir is a CYP3A4 substrate; mitotane is a potent inducer of CYP3A4. (Major) Avoid coadministration of voxilaprevir (a CYP3A4 substrate) with moderate to strong inducers of CYP3A4, such as mitotane. Taking these drugs together may significantly decrease voxilaprevir plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in loss of antiviral efficacy.
Solifenacin: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and solifenacin are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of solifenacin and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and solifenacin is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of solifenacin.
Sonidegib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of mitotane with sonidegib due to decreased sonidegib exposure and possible decreases in efficacy. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and sonidegib is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of sonidegib. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the geometric mean Cmax and AUC of sonidegib by 54% and 72%, respectively.
Sonrotoclax: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonrotoclax and mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease sonrotoclax exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced sonrotoclax overall exposure by 65%.
SORAfenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sorafenib with mitotane due to decreased plasma concentrations of sorafenib. Sorafenib is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased sorafenib exposure by 37%.
Sotorasib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of sotorasib and mitotane. Coadministration may decrease sotorasib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Sotorasib is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the AUC of sotorasib by 51%.
Sparsentan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and mitotane due to the risk for decreased sparsentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease sparsentan overall exposure by 47%.
Spironolactone: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of spironolactone and mitotane; spironolactone may inhibit the action of mitotane resulting in reduced efficacy. Although the effect of spironolactone on the pharmacokinetics of mitotane has not been studied, patients treated with spironolactone have exhibited significantly lower mitotane concentrations despite receiving higher mitotane doses compared to those who did not receive concomitant spironolactone.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of spironolactone and mitotane; spironolactone may inhibit the action of mitotane resulting in reduced efficacy. Although the effect of spironolactone on the pharmacokinetics of mitotane has not been studied, patients treated with spironolactone have exhibited significantly lower mitotane concentrations despite receiving higher mitotane doses compared to those who did not receive concomitant spironolactone.
Stiripentol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of stiripentol with mitotane. If concurrent use is necessary, increase the dose of stiripentol. Coadministration may decrease stiripentol plasma concentrations resulting in a decrease in efficacy. Stiripentol is metabolized by CYP3A4; mitotane is a strong inducer of CYP3A4.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Because the dose of the sufentanil sublingual tablets cannot be titrated, consider an alternate opiate if mitotane must be administered. Monitor for reduced efficacy of sufentanil injection and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with mitotane is necessary; consider increasing the dose of sufentanil injection as needed. If mitotane is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of sufentanil injection and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Sufentanil is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease sufentanil concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
SUNItinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitotane with sunitinib if possible due to decreased exposure to sunitinib which could decrease efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider increasing the daily dose of sunitinib to a maximum of 87.5 mg for patients with GIST or RCC, and to a maximum of 62.5 mg for patients with pNET; monitor carefully for toxicity. Sunitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased exposure to sunitinib and its primary active metabolite by 46%.
Suvorexant: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of suvorexant if coadministration with mitotane is necessary. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased suvorexant exposure by 77% to 88%.
Suzetrigine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of suzetrigine and mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease suzetrigine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 93% and 85%, respectively.
Tacrolimus: (Major) Use caution if mitotane and tacrolimus are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of tacrolimus and a possible change in dosage requirements. Monitor tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and adjust the dose of tacrolimus as necessary. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and tacrolimus is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of tacrolimus. Concomitant administration of immediate-release tacrolimus and another strong CYP3A inducer, rifampin, resulted in a significant decrease in the mean tacrolimus bioavailability (from 14% to 7%) and a significant increase in the mean tacrolimus clearance (from 0.035 L/hr/kg to 0.053 L/hr/kg) compared with tacrolimus alone in 6 healthy subjects. In another pharmacokinetic study in 22 healthy male subjects, the administration of a single 10 mg dose of extended-release tacrolimus (Astagraf XL) following 12 days of rifampin 600 mg/day decreased mean tacrolimus AUC and Cmax values by 56% and 46%, respectively.
Tadalafil: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tadalafil with mitotane in patients with pulmonary hypertension due to decreased plasma concentrations of tadalafil. In patients with erectile dysfunction and/or benign prostatic hyperplasia, consider the potential for loss of efficacy of tadalafil during concurrent administration of mitotane due to reduced tadalafil exposure. Tadalafil is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased tadalafil exposure by 88%.
Taletrectinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced taletrectinib overall exposure by 86%.
Tamoxifen: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitotane with tamoxifen due to decreased exposure to tamoxifen which may affect efficacy. Tamoxifen is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the AUC and Cmax of tamoxifen by 86% and 55%, respectively.
Tamsulosin: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and tamsulosin are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of tamsulosin and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and tamsulosin is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of tamsulosin.
Tasimelteon: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of mitotane with tasimelteon due to decreased tasimelteon exposure and possible decreases in efficacy. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and tasimelteon is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of tasimelteon. During administration of tasimelteon with another potent inducer of CYP3A4, tasimelteon exposure decreased by about 90%.
Tazemetostat: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of tazemetostat and mitotane due to the risk for decreased tazemetostat exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Tazemetostat is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased tazemetostat overall exposure by 84%.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and amlodipine are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of amlodipine and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and amlodipine are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of amlodipine and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Temsirolimus: (Major) Avoid coadministration of temsirolimus with mitotane due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of the primary active metabolite of temsirolimus (sirolimus). If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider increasing the dose of temsirolimus from 25 mg per week up to 50 mg per week. If mitotane is discontinued, decrease the dose of temsirolimus to the dose used before initiation of mitotane. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer had no significant effect on the AUC or Cmax of temsirolimus, but decreased the AUC and Cmax of the active metabolite, sirolimus, by 56% and 65%, respectively.
Tezacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Coadministration of ivacaftor with mitotane is not recommended due to decreased plasma concentrations of ivacaftor. Ivacaftor is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer significantly decreased ivacaftor exposure by approximately 9-fold. (Major) Do not administer tezacaftor; ivacaftor and mitotane together; coadministration may reduce the efficacy of tezacaftor; ivacaftor. Exposure to ivacaftor is significantly decreased and exposure to tezacaftor may be reduced by the concomitant use of mitotane, a strong CYP3A inducer; both tezacaftor and ivacaftor are CYP3A substrates (ivacaftor is a sensitive substrate). Coadministration of ivacaftor with a strong CYP3A inducer decreased ivacaftor exposure 89%.
Theophylline, Aminophylline: (Major) Use caution if mitotane and theophylline, aminophylline are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of theophylline and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and theophylline is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of theophylline. When administered with other moderate to strong CYP3A inducers, average steady-state theophylline concentrations decreased by 25 to 40%.
Thioridazine: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including opiate agonists, may cause additive CNS effects.
Thiotepa: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of thiotepa and mitotane if possible; increased metabolism to the active thiotepa metabolite may result in increased thiotepa toxicity (e.g., infection, bleeding, skin toxicity). Consider an alternative agent with no or minimal potential to induce CYP3A4. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of thiotepa toxicity. In vitro, thiotepa is metabolized via CYP3A4 to the active metabolite, TEPA; mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
tiaGABine: (Major) Use caution if mitotane and tiagabine are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of tiagabine and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and tiagabine is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of tiagabine.
Ticagrelor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ticagrelor with mitotane due to decreased plasma concentrations of ticagrelor. Ticagrelor is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased ticagrelor exposure by 86%.
Tinidazole: (Major) Use caution if mitotane and tinidazole are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of tinidazole and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and tinidazole is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of tinidazole.
Tipranavir: (Contraindicated) Tipranavir is contraindicated for use with mitotane. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and tipranavir is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration significantly reduces plasma concentrations of tipranavir, leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance.
Tivozanib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tivozanib with mitotane due to decreased plasma concentrations of tivozanib, which may reduce its efficacy. Tivozanib is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the overall exposure of tivozanib by 52%.
Tofacitinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tofacitinib and mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease tofacitinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Tofacitinib is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced tofacitinib overall exposure by 84%.
Tolterodine: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and tolterodine are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of tolterodine and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. CYP2D6 is primarily responsible for converting tolterodine to its active metabolite is CYP2D6; however, in the roughly 7% of the Caucasian population devoid of this isozyme ('poor metabolizers'), the drug is metabolized via CYP3A4 to N-dealkylated tolterodine. Coadministration could result in decreased plasma concentrations of tolterodine.
Tolvaptan: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of tolvaptan and mitotane due to the risk for decreased tolvaptan plasma concentrations and reduced efficacy. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased tolvaptan exposure by 85%.
Toremifene: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitotane with toremifene due to decreased plasma concentrations of toremifene which may result in decreased efficacy. Toremifene is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with strong CYP3A4 inducers lowers steady-state serum concentrations of toremifene.
Trabectedin: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of trabectedin with mitotane due to the risk of decreased trabectedin exposure. Trabectedin is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased the systemic exposure of a single dose of trabectedin by 31% compared to a single dose of trabectedin given alone.
traMADol: (Major) Use caution if mitotane and tramadol are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of tramadol and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. The metabolism of tramadol is stereoselective; the (+) enantiomer preferentially undergoes N-demethylation, mediated by CYP3A4 and CYP2B6, and the (-) enantiomer undergoes O-demethylation via CYP2D6. O-demethylation leads to the production of the active metabolite M1, which is critical to tramadol activity. Because of the role of CYP3A4 in tramadol metabolism, coadministration with mitotane may affect patient response to tramadol.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Major) Use caution if mitotane and tramadol are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of tramadol and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. The metabolism of tramadol is stereoselective; the (+) enantiomer preferentially undergoes N-demethylation, mediated by CYP3A4 and CYP2B6, and the (-) enantiomer undergoes O-demethylation via CYP2D6. O-demethylation leads to the production of the active metabolite M1, which is critical to tramadol activity. Because of the role of CYP3A4 in tramadol metabolism, coadministration with mitotane may affect patient response to tramadol. (Minor) Use caution if mitotane and acetaminophen are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of acetaminophen. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and acetaminophen is a minor (10% to 15%) CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of acetaminophen.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and verapamil are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of verapamil and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and verapamil is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of verapamil.
traZODone: (Moderate) Consider increasing the trazodone dose based on therapeutic response when coadministered with mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease trazodone exposure. Trazodone is a CYP3A4 substrate; mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A4 inducers decreased the exposure of trazodone compared to the use of trazodone alone.
Tretinoin, ATRA: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tretinoin with mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease tretinoin exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Tretinoin is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Triazolam: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and triazolam are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of triazolam and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and triazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of triazolam. Additionally, mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS adverse reactions; additive CNS effects may occur initially when mitotane is given concurrently with triazolam.
Trifluoperazine: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including opiate agonists, may cause additive CNS effects.
Triprolidine: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including sedating h1-blockers, may cause additive CNS effects.
Tuberculin Purified Protein Derivative, PPD: (Moderate) Immunosuppressives may decrease the immunological response to tuberculin purified protein derivative, PPD. This suppressed reactivity can persist for up to 6 weeks after treatment discontinuation. Consider deferring the skin test until completion of the immunosuppressive therapy.
Tucatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tucatinib and mitotane due to the risk of decreased tucatinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Tucatinib is a CYP3A4 and CYP2C8 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A4/moderate CYP2C8 inducer decreased tucatinib exposure by 50%.
Ubrogepant: (Major) Avoid the coadministration of ubrogepant and mitotane as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce the efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer resulted in an 80% reduction in ubrogepant exposure.
Ulipristal: (Major) Avoid administration of ulipristal with drugs that induce CYP3A4. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and mitotane is a CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal.
Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and vilanterol are used concomitantly (including combination products fluticasone; vilanterol and umeclidinium; vilanterol), and monitor for decreased efficacy of vilanterol and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and vilanterol is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of vilanterol.
Upadacitinib: (Major) Coadministration of upadacitinib with mitotane is not recommended as upadacitinib exposure may be decreased leading to reduced therapeutic effect. Upadacitinib is CYP3A4 substrate; mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Concurrent use of a strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased upadacitinib exposure by 61%.
Valbenazine: (Major) Co-administration of strong CYP3A4 inducers, such as mitotane, and valbenazine, a CYP3A4 substrate, is not recommended. Strong CYP3A4 inducers can decrease systemic exposure of valbenazine and its active metabolite compared to the use of valbenazine alone. Reduced exposure of valbenazine and its active metabolite may reduce efficacy.
Vandetanib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with mitotane due to decreased plasma concentrations of vandetanib and increased concentrations of the active metabolite. Vandetanib is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the geometric mean AUC of vandetanib by 40%; the geometric mean AUC and Cmax of N-desmethylvandetanib increased by 266% and 414%, respectively.
Vanzacaftor; Tezacaftor; Deutivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor and mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced vanzacaftor and deutivacaftor overall exposure by 82% and 90%, respectively. (Major) Do not administer tezacaftor; ivacaftor and mitotane together; coadministration may reduce the efficacy of tezacaftor; ivacaftor. Exposure to ivacaftor is significantly decreased and exposure to tezacaftor may be reduced by the concomitant use of mitotane, a strong CYP3A inducer; both tezacaftor and ivacaftor are CYP3A substrates (ivacaftor is a sensitive substrate). Coadministration of ivacaftor with a strong CYP3A inducer decreased ivacaftor exposure 89%.
Vanzacaftor; Tezacaftor; Deutivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor and mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced vanzacaftor and deutivacaftor overall exposure by 82% and 90%, respectively.
Vemurafenib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of vemurafenib and mitotane; significantly decreased vemurafenib exposure may occur resulting in reduced vemurafenib efficacy. Consider the use of an alternative agent. If use with mitotane cannot be avoided, increase the vemurafenib dose by 240 mg (as tolerated). If mitotane is discontinued, the previous (lower) vemurafenib dose may be resumed 2 weeks after the last mitotane dose. Vemurafenib is a CYP3A4 substrate; mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. In a drug interaction study, the vemurafenib AUC value decreased by 40% (90% CI, 24% to 53%) when a single 960-mg vemurafenib dose was administered with another strong CYP3A4 inducer; the vemurafenib Cmax was not changed.
Venetoclax: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of venetoclax and mitotane; venetoclax levels may be significantly decreased and its efficacy reduced. Venetoclax is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Consider alternative agents. In a drug interaction study in healthy subjects (n = 10), the venetoclax Cmax and AUC values were decreased by 42% and 71%, respectively, following the co-administration of multiple doses of a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Venlafaxine: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and venlafaxine are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of venlafaxine and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and venlafaxine is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of venlafaxine.
Vepdegestrant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease vepdegestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, increase the vepdegestrant dose to 300 mg daily. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced vepdegestrant overall exposure by 36%.
Verapamil: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and verapamil are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of verapamil and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and verapamil is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of verapamil.
Vilazodone: (Moderate) Consider increasing the dose of vilazodone up to 2-fold over 1 to 2 weeks (maximum, 80 mg per day) based on clinical response if coadministration with mitotane is necessary for more than 14 days. After discontinuation of mitotane, resume the previous vilazodone dose over 1 to 2 weeks. Vilazodone is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Decreased plasma concentrations of vilazodone are expected if vilazodone is used concomitantly with strong CYP3A4 inducers.
vinCRIStine Liposomal: (Major) Concomitant use of mitotane with vincristine should be undertaken with caution as it could result in decreased plasma concentrations of vincristine, leading to reduced efficacy. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and vincristine is a CYP3A4 substrate.
vinCRIStine: (Major) Concomitant use of mitotane with vincristine should be undertaken with caution as it could result in decreased plasma concentrations of vincristine, leading to reduced efficacy. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and vincristine is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Voclosporin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voclosporin with mitotane. Coadministration may decrease voclosporin exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Voclosporin is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased voclosporin exposure by 87%.
Vonoprazan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vonoprazan and mitotane due to decreased plasma concentrations of vonoprazan, which may reduce its efficacy. Vonoprazan is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Vonoprazan exposures are predicted to be 80% lower when coadministered with a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vonoprazan and mitotane due to decreased plasma concentrations of vonoprazan, which may reduce its efficacy. Vonoprazan is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Vonoprazan exposures are predicted to be 80% lower when coadministered with a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vonoprazan and mitotane due to decreased plasma concentrations of vonoprazan, which may reduce its efficacy. Vonoprazan is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Vonoprazan exposures are predicted to be 80% lower when coadministered with a strong CYP3A4 inducer. (Major) Coadministration of mitotane and clarithromycin may decrease clarithromycin serum concentrations due to CYP3A4 enzyme induction. While the 14-OH-clarithromycin active metabolite concentrations are increased, this metabolite has different antimicrobial activity compared to clarithromycin. The intended therapeutic effect of clarithromycin could be decreased. It is not clear if clarithromycin activity against other organisms would be reduced, but reduced efficacy is possible. Alternatives to clarithromycin should be considered in patients who are taking potent CYP3A4 inducers.
Vorapaxar: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of mitotane with vorapaxar; if coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for decreased efficacy of vorapaxar. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and vorapaxar is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of vorapaxar.
Voriconazole: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of mitotane with voriconazole. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and voriconazole is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of voriconazole. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A inducers is either contraindicated (i.e., carbamazepine, rifampin, efavirenz, St. John's Wort, long-acting barbiturates) or requires an increased dose of voriconazole (i.e., phenytoin); specific recommendations are not available for use with mitotane or strong CYP3A inducers generally.
Vortioxetine: (Major) Vortioxetine is extensively metabolized by CYP isoenzymes, primarily CYP2D6 and by CYP3A4 and other isoenzymes to a lesser extent. Therefore, the manufacturer recommends that the practitioner consider an increase in dose of vortioxetine when a strong CYP inducer, such as mitotane, is co-administered for more than 14 days. In such cases, the maximum recommended dose of vortioxetine should not exceed three times the original dose. When the inducer is discontinued, the dose of vortioxetine should be reduced to the original level within 14 days.
Voxelotor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voxelotor and mitotane as concurrent use may decrease voxelotor exposure and lead to reduced efficacy. If coadministration is unavoidable, increase voxelotor dosage to 2,500 mg PO once daily in patients 12 years and older. In patients 4 to 11 years old, weight-based dosage adjustments are recommended; consult product labeling for specific recommendations. Voxelotor is a substrate of CYP3A; mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of voxelotor with a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease voxelotor exposure by up to 40%.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Closely monitor the INR if coadministration of warfarin with mitotane is necessary as concurrent use may decrease the exposure of warfarin leading to reduced efficacy. The R-enantiomer of warfarin is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a CYP3A inducer. The S-enantiomer of warfarin exhibits 2 to 5 times more anticoagulant activity than the R-enantiomer, but the R-enantiomer generally has a slower clearance.
Zaleplon: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of zaleplon if coadministration with mitotane is necessary. Zaleplon is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Although CYP3A4 is normally a minor metabolizing enzyme of zaleplon, coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer reduced zaleplon exposure by approximately 80%. Coadministration with mitotane could lead to ineffectiveness of zaleplon.
Zanubrutinib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of zanubrutinib and mitotane. Coadministration may result in decreased zanubrutinib exposure and reduced efficacy. Zanubrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. The AUC of zanubrutinib was decreased by 93% when coadministered with another strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Zidesamtinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease zidesamtinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Ziftomenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease ziftomenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is estimated to reduce ziftomenib overall exposure by 80%.
Ziprasidone: (Major) Use caution if mitotane and ziprasidone are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of ziprasidone and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and ziprasidone is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of ziprasidone. The concurrent use of ziprasidone with carbamazepine, a potent CYP3A4 inducer, causes a 35% decrease in the AUC of ziprasidone. Additionally, mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS adverse reactions; additive CNS effects may occur initially when mitotane is given concurrently with ziprasidone.
Zoliflodacin: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of zoliflodacin and mitotane is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased zoliflodacin exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zoliflodacin is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce zoliflodacin overall exposure by 56%.
ZOLMitriptan: (Minor) Use caution if mitotane and zolmitriptan are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of zolmitriptan and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and zolmitriptan is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of zolmitriptan. Another strong CYP3A inducer, rifampin, results in small decreases in zolmitriptan peak plasma concentrations (decreased 15%) and AUC (decreased 18%), as well as decreased plasma concentrations of a metabolite of zolmitriptan. This interaction is not likely to be clinically significant.
Zolpidem: (Major) Concurrent use of zolpidem with potent CYP3A4 inducers, such as mitotane, should be avoided if possible because decreased plasma concentrations of zolpidem are possible and efficacy may be reduced. CYP3A4 is the primary isoenzyme responsible for zolpidem metabolism, and there is evidence of significant decreases in systemic exposure and pharmacodynamics effects of zolpidem during co-administration of rifampin, a potent CYP3A4 inducer. Additionally, mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS adverse reactions; additive CNS effects may occur when mitotane is given with zolpidem.
Zongertinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zongertinib and mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease zongertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, double the zongertinib dose: from 120 mg to 240 mg in those weighing less than 90 kg, and from 180 mg to 360 mg in those weighing 90 kg or more. Zongertinib is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced zongertinib overall exposure by 63%.
Zonisamide: (Major) Use caution if mitotane and zonisamide are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of zonisamide and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and zonisamide is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of zonisamide. Concomitant administration of other strong CYP3A inducerse, phenytoin and carbamazepine, increase zonisamide plasma clearance from 0.30 to 0.35 mL/min/kg to 0.35 to 0.5 mL/min/kg. The half-life of zonisamide is decreased to 27 hours by phenytoin, to 38 hours by phenobarbital and carbamazepine, and to 46 hours by valproate.
Zuranolone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zuranolone and mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease zuranolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced zuranolone overall exposure by 85%.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  The most common adverse effects associated with mitotane therapy are GI and CNS disturbances. These effects appear to be dose-related.Adverse GI effects include anorexia, nausea/vomiting, or diarrhea. Eighty percent of patients taking mitotane will report gastrointestinal disturbances.Adverse CNS effects most frequently include lethargy and somnolence and, less frequently, dizziness or vertigo. Mental status changes, such as depression, fatigue, irritability, headache, confusion, and tremor, also have been reported. Prolonged use of high doses of mitotane has resulted in brain damage and functional impairment.Mitotane alters the adrenal and extraadrenal metabolism of steroids, and glucocorticoid replacement therapy typically is necessary in these patients. Patients receiving mitotane or patients in whom mitotane therapy has been recently discontinued should be closely observed for signs preceding adrenocortical insufficiency such as shock, severe trauma, or infection; patients should be warned to contact their clinician if injury, illness, or infection occurs.Hemorrhagic cystitis has been reported in patients receiving mitotane and, although rare, is potentially fatal.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    anorexia, diarrhea, dyspepsia, nausea, vomiting
    General Information
    Anorexia, diarrhea, dyspepsia, epigastric discomfort, mucosal inflammation, nausea, and vomiting have been reported in patients treated with mitotane in clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      dyspepsia
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    ataxia, confusion, depression, dizziness, headache, lethargy, neurotoxicity, vertigo, weakness
    General Information
    Neurotoxicity including sedation, lethargy, and vertigo, has been reported in patients treated with mitotane. Additional nervous system disorders reported with mitotane therapy in clinical trials include ataxia, balance disorder, confusion, depression, dizziness, headache, mental impairment, and weakness. Monitor behavioral and neurologic assessments at regular intervals. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary depending on severity; additionally, evaluate thyroid function if cognitive dysfunction occurs as mitotane may induce hypothyroidism. Because neurotoxicity is more common in patients with plasma concentrations greater than 20 mcg/mL, monitor mitotane plasma concentrations every 2 weeks after beginning therapy and after dose adjustments. Once target plasma concentrations are achieved, continue to monitor concentrations monthly during treatment and every 2 months after discontinuation of therapy. Advise patients against driving or operating machinery if they are experiencing CNS adverse reactions.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      depression
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      lethargy
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      vertigo
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      ataxia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      confusion
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      weakness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      neurotoxicity
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    adrenocortical insufficiency
    General Information
    Adrenocortical insufficiency has occurred in patients treated with mitotane; in the setting of shock, severe trauma, or infection, this can cause adrenal crisis that may lead to death. Interrupt treatment if shock, trauma, infection, or adrenal suppression occurs, as well as prior to any planned surgery. Monitor glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid levels in all patients during treatment and replace systemic corticosteroids as clinically appropriate; high-dose replacement therapy may be required due to treatment-related increases in steroid clearance and corticosteroid-binding globulin. Monitor free cortisol and corticotropin (ACTH) to ensure appropriate steroid dosing. Provide supportive care if necessary. Educate patients on the signs and symptoms of adrenal suppression and advise them to contact their healthcare provider immediately if shock, trauma, infection, or adrenal suppression occurs.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      adrenocortical insufficiency
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    hematuria, hemorrhagic cystitis
    General Information
    Hematuria and hemorrhagic cystitis have been reported in patients treated with mitotane in clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hemorrhagic cystitis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hematuria
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    pruritus, rash
    General Information
    Rash, pruritus, and hypersensitivity reactions have been reported in patients with mitotane in clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    blurred vision, diplopia, retinopathy
    General Information
    Diplopia, lens opacity, maculopathy, retinopathy, and blurred vision have been reported with mitotane treatment in clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      blurred vision
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      diplopia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      retinopathy
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    hypertension, orthostatic hypotension
    General Information
    Hypertension and orthostatic hypotension have been reported in patients treated with mitotane in clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      orthostatic hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    fever
    General Information
    Fever has been reported in patients treated with mitotane in clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    flushing
    General Information
    Flushing has been reported in patients treated with mitotane in clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      flushing
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    anemia, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia
    General Information
    Treatment with mitotane can cause bone marrow suppression, including leukopenia, anemia, and thrombocytopenia. Monitor complete blood counts with differential at baseline, during dose titration, and periodically during treatment as clinically indicated. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary depending on the severity of myelosuppression.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      leukopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    hypothyroidism
    General Information
    Hypothyroidism has occurred in mitotane-treated patients in clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypothyroidism
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    growth inhibition
    General Information
    Growth inhibition has occurred in mitotane-treated patients in clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      growth inhibition
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatic failure, hepatitis, hepatotoxicity
    General Information
    Treatment with mitotane can result in hepatotoxicity, including liver injury (hepatocellular, cholestatic, or mixed) and hepatic failure. Hepatitis and elevated hepatic enzymes including isolated increases in gamma-glutamyl transferase (GGT) have also occurred in clinical trials. Monitor mitotane plasma concentrations more frequently in patients with hepatic disease as mitotane exposure may be increased; adjust the dose of mitotane as clinically appropriate. An interruption of therapy or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary depending on the severity. Mitotane is not recommended for use in patients with severe hepatic impairment.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hepatitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hepatic failure
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hepatotoxicity
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    gynecomastia
    General Information
    Gynecomastia, decreased plasma androstenedione, and increased sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG) have been reported in patients treated with mitotane in clinical trials. Additionally, decreased blood concentrations of free testosterone and hypogonadism have been reported in male patients who received mitotane, and decreased plasma concentrations of testosterone were reported in female patients treated with mitotane. Clinicians should be mindful of potential mitotane-induced alterations in hormonal assays when interpreting results.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      gynecomastia
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    hypercholesterolemia, hypertriglyceridemia
    General Information
    Hypercholesterolemia and hypertriglyceridemia have occurred in mitotane-treated patients in clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypercholesterolemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hypertriglyceridemia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    myalgia
    General Information
    Generalized aching (myalgia) has occurred in mitotane-treated patients in clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      myalgia
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    ovarian cyst, ovarian torsion, pelvic pain, vaginal bleeding
    General Information
    Treatment with mitotane can cause nonmalignant, multiple, and bilateral ovarian macrocysts (ovarian cyst) in premenopausal females treated with mitotane. Symptoms may include pelvic pain or discomfort, menstrual irregularities, or vaginal bleeding; these cysts may also be asymptomatic. Complications have included ovarian torsion and hemorrhagic cyst rupture. Monitor pelvic imaging in premenopausal females at baseline and at regular intervals during treatment; an interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary based on severity. Female patients should seek medical care if vaginal bleeding or pelvic pain occur.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      pelvic pain
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      vaginal bleeding
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      ovarian cyst
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      ovarian torsion
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    dysgeusia
    General Information
    Dysgeusia has been reported with mitotane therapy in clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dysgeusia
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    dysarthria
    General Information
    Dysarthria has been reported with mitotane therapy in clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dysarthria
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    paresthesias
    General Information
    Neurologic toxicity including paresthesias and polyneuropathy has been reported in patients treated with mitotane. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary depending on severity. Because neurotoxicity is more common in patients with plasma concentrations greater than 20 mcg/mL, monitor mitotane plasma concentrations every 2 weeks after beginning therapy and after dose adjustments. Once target plasma concentrations are achieved, continue to monitor concentrations monthly during treatment and every 2 months after discontinuation of therapy.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      paresthesias
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    proteinuria
    General Information
    Proteinuria and, specifically, albuminuria were reported in patients treated with mitotane in clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      proteinuria
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    prolonged bleeding time
    General Information
    Mitotane treatment can cause abnormal adenosine diphosphate (ADP)-induced platelet aggregation; prolonged bleeding time has been reported in some patients while others may have normal bleeding time. Routine in vitro testing for bleeding time is not sufficient to detect this platelet defect and to assess bleeding risk; perform ADP-inducted platelet aggregometry testing prior to surgery or dental procedures to determine mitotane-induced bleeding risk. An interruption of therapy or dose reduction may be necessary.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      prolonged bleeding time
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    infection
    General Information
    Opportunistic infection has been reported in patients treated with mitotane in clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    dyspnea
    General Information
    Dyspnea was reported in postmarketing experience with mitotane.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    QT prolongation
    General Information
    QT prolongation was reported in postmarketing experience with mitotane.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      QT prolongation
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    laboratory test interference
    General Information
    Treatment with mitotane may result in laboratory test interference; clinicians should be mindful of this when interpreting the results of hormonal assays. Mitotane increases plasma concentrations of hormone binding proteins including sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) and corticosteroid-binding globulin (CBG).

Description
  Text
  Mitotane is an adrenal cytotoxic agent that modifies steroid metabolism and directly suppresses the adrenal cortex. It is indicated for the treatment of inoperable, functional or nonfunctional, adrenocortical carcinoma. Treatment is associated with an increased risk for the development of potentially fatal adrenal crisis in the setting of shock, severe trauma, or infection. Monitor patients closely and instruct them to contact their care team immediately if injury, infection, or any other concomitant illness occurs.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Mitotane is an adrenal cytotoxic agent with an unclear mechanism of action. It modifies the peripheral metabolism of steroids and directly suppresses the adrenal cortex. A reduction in 17-hydroxycorticosteroids in the absence of decreased corticosteroid levels and increased formation of 6-beta-hydroxycortisol have been reported.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    The bioavailability of mitotane is 40% after oral administration. The effect of food on the absorption of mitotane is unknown; however, data with various formulations of mitotane suggest that administration with high-fat food enhances absorption.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    The pharmacokinetics of mitotane have not been studied in patients with hepatic impairment. However, mitotane is metabolized via the liver and plasma concentrations may increase if hepatic function is impaired.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    The pharmacokinetics of mitotane have not been studied in patients with renal impairment. However, mitotane is renally eliminated and plasma concentrations may increase if renal function is impaired. Mitotane is not likely to be dialyzable.
    Name
    Obesity
    Description
    Mitotane is lipophilic and accumulates in adipose tissue; plasma concentrations may suddenly increase despite maintaining a consistent dose in patients with obesity or recent weight loss. Additionally, adipose tissue may continue to release mitotane despite doses being held.
  Text
  Mitotane is administered orally. It is lipophilic and widely distributed throughout the body, primarily accumulating in adipose tissue. The median terminal half-life after discontinuation is 53 days (range, 18 to 159 days). Approximately 10% of a dose is recovered in the urine as a water-soluble metabolite, while 1% to 17% is excreted into the bile as this metabolite; no unchanged drug is found in the urine or bile.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A4
Mitotane is metabolized to its major circulating metabolite, 1,1-(o,p'-dichlorodiphenyl) acetic acid (o,p'-DDA), via hepatic and extrahepatic metabolism; o,p'-DDA is water-soluble. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
Hazardous Drugs Classification
NIOSH 2024 List: Table 1
Observe and exercise appropriate precautions for handling, preparation, administration, and disposal of hazardous drugs.
Use gloves to handle; double chemotherapy gloves and a protective gown are needed if manipulation is necessary. Cutting, crushing, or otherwise manipulating tablets/capsules will increase exposure.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Mitotane is administered orally with food; administer consistently with regard to the timing around meals. High-fat meals will increase absorption.
Swallow tablets whole; do not crush, chew, or split tablets. Do not take tablets showing signs of deterioration.
If a dose is missed or if a patient vomits after taking a dose, the next dose should be taken as scheduled; do not make up the missed dose.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    Starting dose of 2,000 to 6,000 mg per day PO; adjust PO dosage to plasma drug concentrations of 14 mg/liter to 20 mg/liter.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    Starting dose of 2,000 to 6,000 mg per day PO; adjust PO dosage to plasma drug concentrations of 14 mg/liter to 20 mg/liter.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Baseline Hepatic Impairment
Mild to moderate hepatic impairment: Monitor mitotane plasma concentrations more frequently and adjust the dose as necessary to maintain concentrations in the therapeutic range of 14 mg/liter to 20 mg/liter.
Severe hepatic impairment: Treatment with mitotane is not recommended.
 
Treatment-Related Hepatotoxicity
Grades 3 or 4: Measure mitotane plasma concentrations and hold mitotane therapy. Upon resolution to grade 1 or less, or baseline, resume mitotane at a reduced dose or permanently discontinue therapy, depending on the severity.
  Renal Impairment
  Baseline Renal Insufficiency
Mild to moderate hepatic impairment: Monitor mitotane plasma concentrations more frequently and adjust the dose as necessary to maintain concentrations in the therapeutic range of 14 mg/liter to 20 mg/liter.
Severe hepatic impairment: Treatment with mitotane is not recommended.
