=== Trimethobenzamide (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 1602)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Trimethobenzamide is an oral and parenteral antiemetic agent.

Routes: injection (IV/IM/SC), oral; Common adult doses: 1200 mg/day PO; or 800 mg/day IM or PR.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): blurred vision, coma, dizziness, drowsiness, headache, muscle cramps, pseudoparkinsonism, seizures, tremor, agranulocytosis, angioedema, fever, jaundice, leukopenia, rash (unspecified)

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: A large portion of trimethobenzamide is excreted as unchanged drug via the kidney. In order to minimize the risk of adverse reactions, the dose should be reduced in patients with renal impairment or renal failure (see Dosage).

Brand Names
  - Navogan
  - Tebamide
  - Tigan
  - Tigan Pediatric
  - Trimazide

Dosage Forms
  - Tigan 200mg/2mL Solution for Injection
  - Trimethobenzamide Hydrochloride 100mg/1mL Solution for injection
  - Trimethobenzamide Hydrochloride 300mg Oral capsule
  - Trimethobenzamide Hydrochloride Bulk powder

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        300 mg PO 3 to 4 times per day as needed.
        Heading
        Geriatric
        Dosage Description
        300 mg PO 3 to 4 times per day PRN. Reduce the daily dosage by increasing the dosing interval and adjust as needed based upon therapeutic response and tolerability.
      Heading
      Intramuscular dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        200 mg IM 3 to 4 times per day as needed.
    Heading
    For the control of nausea/vomiting due to gastroenteritis or post-operative nausea/vomiting (PONV)
    Routes
      Heading
      Intramuscular dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adult Pregnant females
        Dosage Description
        200 mg IM every 6 to 8 hours as needed. Per ACOG, trimethobenzamide is a third-line pharmacologic option if the patient is still experiencing persistent symptoms after a trial of nonpharmacologic options and other pharmacologic options (e.g., vitamin B6, doxylamine, promethazine, prochlorperzine, dimenhydrinate, diphenhydramine).
    Heading
    For the treatment of pregnancy-induced nausea/vomiting†

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  A large portion of trimethobenzamide is excreted as unchanged drug via the kidney. In order to minimize the risk of adverse reactions, the dose should be reduced in patients with renal impairment or renal failure (see Dosage).
 
Trimethobenzamide injection is for intramuscular administration only; do not give via intravenous administration. Trimethobenzamide injection is contraindicated for use in children or infants; children may receive other dosage forms dependent on weight. Trimethobenzamide suppositories are contraindicated for use in neonates (newborn infants) and neonatal prematurity. Trimethobenzamide suppositories contain benzocaine; avoid trimethobenzamide suppository use in patients with history of benzocaine hypersensitivity or other ester local anesthetic hypersensitivity.
 
Trimethobenzamide is contraindicated for use in patients with known hypersensitivity to trimethobenzamide. This contraindication includes patients who have experienced agranulocytosis or other blood dyscrasias; skin reactions indicative of sensitization or jaundice due to trimethobenzamide therapy. Patients should be instructed to report sore throat, fever and unusual tiredness, or symptoms of jaundice to their health care professional. Trimethobenzamide should be used with caution in patients with preexisting bone marrow suppression. Drug-induced bone marrow suppression is rare, but preexisting neutropenia could be worsened by the administration of this drug. Trimethobenzamide should also be used with caution in the presence of hepatic disease.
 
Trimethobenzamide is classified in FDA pregnancy-risk category C. While the drug has been used clinically during pregnancy, there are no adequate and controlled studies of trimethobenzamide use during human gestation. No teratogenicity has been suggested in rat or rabbit experiments. In one human study from the 1970's, the incidence of severe congenital defects was increased in trimethobenzamide-exposed infants compared to non-treated controls, but the use of other antiemetics in some patients may have influenced the results of the study. The authors concluded that the risk of congenital malformations due to trimethobenzamide was low. The use of trimethobenzamide during pregnancy should only be considered when non-drug measures to control vomiting have failed and the risk-benefit ratio for the patient and fetus has been determined.
 
There are no data available on the use of trimethobenzamide during breast-feeding. The molecular weight of the drug is within the range that would be expected to pass into breast milk. The American Academy of Pediatrics has made no recommendation regarding the use of this drug during lactation; safety has not been established.
 
Trimethobenzamide should be used with caution in patients with certain disorders such as acute fever, encephalitis, Reye's syndrome, encephalopathy, gastroenteritis, dehydration, and electrolyte imbalance, especially in children, older patients, or debilitated patients because neurologic reactions resulting from trimethobenzamide therapy may be similar to CNS signs and symptoms accompanying these disorders. The diagnosis of these disorders may be obscured or the disease-associated signs and symptoms may be incorrectly diagnosed as drug induced. The use of centrally acting antiemetics in children with viral infection has reportedly been associated with an increased risk of developing Reye's syndrome (characterized by abrupt onset of persistent, severe vomiting; lethargy; irrational behavior; progressive encephalopathy leading to coma; seizures; and death); however, a causal relationship to the cause or course of Reye's syndrome has not been established. It has been suggested that drugs which are potentially hepatotoxic, including trimethobenzamide, may unfavorably alter the course of Reye's syndrome.
 
Clinical studies of of trimethobenzamide did not include sufficient numbers of elderly patients to determine if they respond differently than younger patients. In general, dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious, usually starting at the low end of the dosing range, reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic, renal, or cardiac function, and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy. Trimethobenzamide is largely excreted by the kidney, and the risk of toxic reactions may be greater in patients with impaired renal function, including the elderly. Additionally, use with caution in elderly patients because neurologic reactions resulting from trimethobenzamide may be similar to CNS signs and symptoms accompanying fever, encephalitis, Reye's syndrome, gastroenteritis, dehydration, and electrolyte imbalances. The diagnosis of these disorders may be obscured or the disease-associated symptoms may be incorrectly diagnosed as drug-induced.
 
The antiemetic effects of trimethobenzamide may mask the symptoms of overdosage of other drugs or may obscure the cause of vomiting in various disorders such as appendicitis.
 
Trimethobenzamide can cause blurred vision, disorientation, dizziness, and drowsiness. Trimethobenzamide may impair the ability to perform activities requiring mental alertness or physical coordination (e.g., driving or operating machinery). Concomitant use with alcohol (ethanol intoxication) should be avoided. Trimethobenzamide should also be used cautiously in patients who have recently received other drugs which act on the CNS (see Drug Interactions).
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    The antiemetic effects of trimethobenzamide injection may mask the symptoms of overdosage of other drugs or may obscure the cause of vomiting in various disorders such as appendicitis.
    Headline
    adolescents, children, infants, neonates, Reye's syndrome
    General Information
    Trimethobenzamide injection is contraindicated for use in adolescents, children, infants, and neonates and should not be used in pediatric individuals. As with the injection, the safety and effectiveness of oral trimethobenzamide capsules in pediatric individuals has not been established and is not recommended due to the risk of extrapyramidal symptoms and other serious CNS effects, and the risk of exacerbation of underlying disease in pediatric individuals with Reye's Syndrome, or other hepatic impairment. The Key Potentially Inappropriate Drugs in Pediatrics (KIDs) list includes trimethobenzamide as a potentially inappropriate medication for use in neonates, infants, children, and adolescents and use should be avoided. If avoidance is not possible, use trimethobenzamide with caution and appropriate monitoring.
    Headline
    acute encephalopathy, dehydration, electrolyte imbalance, fever, gastroenteritis
    General Information
    Trimethobenzamide injection should be used with caution in individuals with certain disorders such as acute fever, encephalitis or acute encephalopathy, gastroenteritis, dehydration, and electrolyte imbalance, especially in children, older individuals, or debilitated individuals because neurologic reactions resulting from trimethobenzamide therapy may be similar to CNS signs and symptoms accompanying these disorders. The diagnosis of these disorders may be obscured or the disease-associated signs and symptoms may be incorrectly diagnosed as drug-induced. As with the injection, extrapyramidal symptoms and other CNS symptoms which can occur in patients treated with trimethobenzamide capsules may be confused with CNS signs of undiagnosed primary disease (e.g., encephalopathy, metabolic or electrolyte imbalance, or Reye's syndrome).
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    A large portion of trimethobenzamide is excreted as unchanged drug via the kidney. In order to minimize the risk of adverse reactions, in individuals with renal impairment (creatinine clearance 70 mL/minute/1.73 m2 or less) or renal failure, reduce the daily dosage by increasing the dosing interval and adjust as needed based upon therapeutic response and tolerability. Monitor renal function.
    Headline
    hepatic failure
    General Information
    Trimethobenzamide may cause hepatotoxicity; therefore, avoid use of trimethobenzamide capsules in individuals with hepatic impairment or hepatic failure. Discontinue trimethobenzamide in individuals who develop impaired liver function while taking the medicine.
    Headline
    activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery
    General Information
    Trimethobenzamide can cause blurred vision, disorientation, dizziness, and drowsiness. Individuals should be warned to avoid driving or operating machinery or other activities requiring coordination and concentration until they are reasonably certain the medication does not affect them adversely. When possible, the concurrent use of alcohol, sedative/hypnotics, opioids or other agents that may augment CNS and/or respiratory depression should be avoided. Consider reducing the daily dosage of trimethobenzamide by increasing the dosing interval or discontinuing the drug.
    Headline
    geriatric
    General Information
    Use trimethobenzamide with caution in geriatric individuals. Because the drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney, and older adults are more likely to have decreased renal function, reduce the daily dosage of trimethobenzamide by increasing the dosing interval and adjust as needed based upon therapeutic response and tolerability. Monitor renal function.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    The limited available data with trimethobenzamide use during pregnancy are not sufficient to inform a drug-associated risk for major birth defects and miscarriage. Reproduction studies with trimethobenzamide in rats and rabbits showed no developmental toxicity during organogenesis. However, at doses of 20 mg/kg and 100 mg/kg (0.16 and 0.8 times the RHD of 1,200 mg/day, based on body surface area) in rats and 100 mg/kg (1.6 times the RHD of 1,200 mg/day, based on body surface area) in rabbits, increased embryonic resorptions and stillbirths were observed, attributed to individual dams. The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) include trimethobenzamide as a third-line pharmacologic treatment option for nausea and vomiting of pregnancy in individuals who have failed other primary and secondary therapies but for whom dehydration is not evident.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use trimethobenzamide with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data available on the use of trimethobenzamide in human milk, the effects of trimethobenzamide on the breastfed infant or the effects of the drug on milk production. It is unlikely that the presence of trimethobenzamide in breast milk would produce a clinical effect in an infant, particularly with short-term use.  The infant should be monitored for excess sedation or other adverse effects. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the risk of potential infant drug exposure, and the risk of an untreated or inadequately treated maternal condition.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    The limited available data with trimethobenzamide use during pregnancy are not sufficient to inform a drug-associated risk for major birth defects and miscarriage. Reproduction studies with trimethobenzamide in rats and rabbits showed no developmental toxicity during organogenesis. However, at doses of 20 mg/kg and 100 mg/kg (0.16 and 0.8 times the RHD of 1,200 mg/day, based on body surface area) in rats and 100 mg/kg (1.6 times the RHD of 1,200 mg/day, based on body surface area) in rabbits, increased embryonic resorptions and stillbirths were observed, attributed to individual dams. The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) include trimethobenzamide as a third-line pharmacologic treatment option for nausea and vomiting of pregnancy in individuals who have failed other primary and secondary therapies but for whom dehydration is not evident.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use trimethobenzamide with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data available on the use of trimethobenzamide in human milk, the effects of trimethobenzamide on the breastfed infant or the effects of the drug on milk production. It is unlikely that the presence of trimethobenzamide in breast milk would produce a clinical effect in an infant, particularly with short-term use.  The infant should be monitored for excess sedation or other adverse effects. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the risk of potential infant drug exposure, and the risk of an untreated or inadequately treated maternal condition.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the sedating h1-blockers, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the sedating h1-blocker.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like opiate agonists, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the opiate agonist.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the sedating h1-blockers, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the sedating h1-blocker.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the sedating h1-blockers, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the sedating h1-blocker.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the sedating h1-blockers, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the sedating h1-blocker.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the sedating h1-blockers, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the sedating h1-blocker.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the sedating h1-blockers, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the sedating h1-blocker.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the sedating h1-blockers, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the sedating h1-blocker.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like opiate agonists, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the opiate agonist.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the sedating h1-blockers, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the sedating h1-blocker.
Acetaminophen; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the sedating h1-blockers, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the sedating h1-blocker.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like opiate agonists, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the opiate agonist.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like opiate agonists, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the opiate agonist.
Acetaminophen; Pamabrom; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the sedating h1-blockers, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the sedating h1-blocker.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like opiate agonists, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the opiate agonist.
ALPRAZolam: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the benzodiazepines, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the benzodiazepine.
Amikacin: (Minor) Because of trimethobenzamide's antiemetic pharmacology, the drug may effectively mask dizziness, tinnitus, or vertigo that are associated with ototoxicity induced by various medications, including the aminoglycosides. Clinicians should be aware of this potential interaction and take it into consideration when monitoring for aminoglycoside-induced side effects.
Aminoglycosides: (Minor) Because of trimethobenzamide's antiemetic pharmacology, the drug may effectively mask dizziness, tinnitus, or vertigo that are associated with ototoxicity induced by various medications, including the aminoglycosides. Clinicians should be aware of this potential interaction and take it into consideration when monitoring for aminoglycoside-induced side effects.
Amobarbital: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with barbiturates may potentiate the CNS effects of either trimethobenzamide or the barbiturate.
Anticholinergics: (Moderate) Trimethobenzamide has CNS depressant effects and may cause drowsiness. The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the anticholinergics, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the anticholinergic.
Anxiolytics; Sedatives; and Hypnotics: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like anxiolytics, sedatives and hypnotics, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the anxiolytics, sedatives and hypnotics.
Apomorphine: (Moderate) Because apomorphine may cause somnolence or dizziness, monitor for additive sedation or dizziness when trimethobenzamide or other sedating anti-emetics are used with apomorphine.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with barbiturates may potentiate the CNS effects of either trimethobenzamide or the barbiturate.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like opiate agonists, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the opiate agonist.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like opiate agonists, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the opiate agonist.
Atropine: (Moderate) Trimethobenzamide has CNS depressant effects and may cause drowsiness. The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the anticholinergics, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the anticholinergic.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Moderate) Trimethobenzamide has CNS depressant effects and may cause drowsiness. The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the anticholinergics, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the anticholinergic.
Barbiturates: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with barbiturates may potentiate the CNS effects of either trimethobenzamide or the barbiturate.
Belladonna; Opium: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like opiate agonists, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the opiate agonist. (Moderate) Trimethobenzamide has CNS depressant effects and may cause drowsiness. The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the anticholinergics, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the anticholinergic.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like opiate agonists, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the opiate agonist.
Benzodiazepines: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the benzodiazepines, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the benzodiazepine.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Moderate) Trimethobenzamide has CNS depressant effects and may cause drowsiness. The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the anticholinergics, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the anticholinergic.
Benztropine: (Moderate) Trimethobenzamide has CNS depressant effects and may cause drowsiness. The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the anticholinergics, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the anticholinergic.
Brompheniramine: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the sedating h1-blockers, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the sedating h1-blocker.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the sedating h1-blockers, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the sedating h1-blocker.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the sedating h1-blockers, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the sedating h1-blocker.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the sedating h1-blockers, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the sedating h1-blocker.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the sedating h1-blockers, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the sedating h1-blocker.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Trimethobenzamide has CNS depressant effects and may cause drowsiness. The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the anticholinergics, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the anticholinergic.
Buprenorphine: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like buprenorphine, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or buprenorphine.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like buprenorphine, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or buprenorphine.
busPIRone: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like buspirone, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or buspirone.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with barbiturates may potentiate the CNS effects of either trimethobenzamide or the barbiturate.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with barbiturates may potentiate the CNS effects of either trimethobenzamide or the barbiturate.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with barbiturates may potentiate the CNS effects of either trimethobenzamide or the barbiturate. (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like opiate agonists, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the opiate agonist.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with barbiturates may potentiate the CNS effects of either trimethobenzamide or the barbiturate. (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like opiate agonists, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the opiate agonist.
Butorphanol: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, such as butorphanol, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the other medication.
Calcium, Magnesium, Potassium, Sodium Oxybates: (Major) Sodium oxybate should not be used in combination with CNS depressants. Additive CNS depressant effects may be possible when sodium oxybate is used concurrently with drugs like trimethobenzamide.
Carbinoxamine: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the sedating h1-blockers, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the sedating h1-blocker.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like opiate agonists, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the opiate agonist.
Chlophedianol; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the sedating h1-blockers, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the sedating h1-blocker.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the sedating h1-blockers, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the sedating h1-blocker.
Chlorcyclizine: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the sedating h1-blockers, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the sedating h1-blocker.
chlordiazePOXIDE: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the benzodiazepines, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the benzodiazepine.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the benzodiazepines, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the benzodiazepine.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the benzodiazepines, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the benzodiazepine. (Moderate) Trimethobenzamide has CNS depressant effects and may cause drowsiness. The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the anticholinergics, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the anticholinergic.
Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the sedating h1-blockers, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the sedating h1-blocker.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like opiate agonists, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the opiate agonist. (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the sedating h1-blockers, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the sedating h1-blocker.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the sedating h1-blockers, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the sedating h1-blocker.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the sedating h1-blockers, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the sedating h1-blocker.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the sedating h1-blockers, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the sedating h1-blocker.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like opiate agonists, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the opiate agonist. (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the sedating h1-blockers, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the sedating h1-blocker.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the sedating h1-blockers, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the sedating h1-blocker.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the sedating h1-blockers, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the sedating h1-blocker.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the sedating h1-blockers, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the sedating h1-blocker.
chlorproMAZINE: (Moderate) Trimethobenzamide has CNS depressant effects and may cause drowsiness. The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression such as the phenothiazines may potentiate drowsiness or other common side effects of either medication. In addition, the administration of trimethobenzamide to patients who have recently received CNS-depressive drugs has resulted in opisthotonus, seizures, coma, and extrapyramidal symptoms.
Clemastine: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the sedating h1-blockers, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the sedating h1-blocker.
clonazePAM: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the benzodiazepines, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the benzodiazepine.
Clorazepate: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the benzodiazepines, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the benzodiazepine.
Codeine: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like opiate agonists, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the opiate agonist.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like opiate agonists, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the opiate agonist. (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the sedating h1-blockers, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the sedating h1-blocker.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like opiate agonists, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the opiate agonist.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like opiate agonists, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the opiate agonist.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like opiate agonists, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the opiate agonist. (Moderate) Trimethobenzamide has CNS depressant effects and may cause drowsiness. The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression such as the phenothiazines may potentiate drowsiness or other common side effects of either medication. In addition, the administration of trimethobenzamide to patients who have recently received CNS-depressive drugs has resulted in opisthotonus, seizures, coma, and extrapyramidal symptoms.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like opiate agonists, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the opiate agonist. (Moderate) Trimethobenzamide has CNS depressant effects and may cause drowsiness. The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression such as the phenothiazines may potentiate drowsiness or other common side effects of either medication. In addition, the administration of trimethobenzamide to patients who have recently received CNS-depressive drugs has resulted in opisthotonus, seizures, coma, and extrapyramidal symptoms.
Cyproheptadine: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the sedating h1-blockers, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the sedating h1-blocker.
Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the sedating h1-blockers, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the sedating h1-blocker.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the sedating h1-blockers, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the sedating h1-blocker.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the sedating h1-blockers, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the sedating h1-blocker.
Dexchlorpheniramine: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the sedating h1-blockers, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the sedating h1-blocker.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the sedating h1-blockers, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the sedating h1-blocker.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the sedating h1-blockers, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the sedating h1-blocker.
diazePAM: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the benzodiazepines, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the benzodiazepine.
Dicyclomine: (Moderate) Trimethobenzamide has CNS depressant effects and may cause drowsiness. The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the anticholinergics, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the anticholinergic.
dimenhyDRINATE: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the sedating h1-blockers, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the sedating h1-blocker.
diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the sedating h1-blockers, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the sedating h1-blocker.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the sedating h1-blockers, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the sedating h1-blocker.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the sedating h1-blockers, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the sedating h1-blocker.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the sedating h1-blockers, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the sedating h1-blocker.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Moderate) Trimethobenzamide has CNS depressant effects and may cause drowsiness. The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the anticholinergics, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the anticholinergic.
Doxylamine: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the sedating h1-blockers, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the sedating h1-blocker.
Doxylamine; Pyridoxine: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the sedating h1-blockers, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the sedating h1-blocker.
droNABinol: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, such as dronabinol, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or dronabinol.
droPERidol: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like droperidol, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or droperidol.
Estazolam: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the benzodiazepines, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the benzodiazepine.
Eszopiclone: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like anxiolytics, sedatives and hypnotics, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the anxiolytics, sedatives and hypnotics.
Ethanol: (Major) Advise patients to avoid alcohol consumption while taking CNS depressants. Alcohol consumption may result in additive CNS depression.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like opiate agonists, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the opiate agonist.
flavoxATE: (Moderate) Trimethobenzamide has CNS depressant effects and may cause drowsiness. The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the anticholinergics, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the anticholinergic.
fluPHENAZine: (Moderate) Trimethobenzamide has CNS depressant effects and may cause drowsiness. The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression such as the phenothiazines may potentiate drowsiness or other common side effects of either medication. In addition, the administration of trimethobenzamide to patients who have recently received CNS-depressive drugs has resulted in opisthotonus, seizures, coma, and extrapyramidal symptoms.
Flurazepam: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the benzodiazepines, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the benzodiazepine.
Gentamicin: (Minor) Because of trimethobenzamide's antiemetic pharmacology, the drug may effectively mask dizziness, tinnitus, or vertigo that are associated with ototoxicity induced by various medications, including the aminoglycosides. Clinicians should be aware of this potential interaction and take it into consideration when monitoring for aminoglycoside-induced side effects.
Glycopyrrolate: (Moderate) Trimethobenzamide has CNS depressant effects and may cause drowsiness. The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the anticholinergics, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the anticholinergic.
Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Trimethobenzamide has CNS depressant effects and may cause drowsiness. The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the anticholinergics, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the anticholinergic.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like opiate agonists, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the opiate agonist. (Moderate) Trimethobenzamide has CNS depressant effects and may cause drowsiness. The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the anticholinergics, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the anticholinergic.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like opiate agonists, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the opiate agonist.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like opiate agonists, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the opiate agonist.
HYDROmorphone: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like opiate agonists, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the opiate agonist.
hydrOXYzine: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the sedating h1-blockers, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the sedating h1-blocker.
Hyoscyamine: (Moderate) Trimethobenzamide has CNS depressant effects and may cause drowsiness. The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the anticholinergics, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the anticholinergic.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Moderate) Trimethobenzamide has CNS depressant effects and may cause drowsiness. The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the anticholinergics, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the anticholinergic.
Levorphanol: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like opiate agonists, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the opiate agonist.
LORazepam: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the benzodiazepines, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the benzodiazepine.
Meclizine: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the sedating h1-blockers, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the sedating h1-blocker.
Meperidine: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like opiate agonists, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the opiate agonist.
Meprobamate: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like anxiolytics, sedatives and hypnotics, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the anxiolytics, sedatives and hypnotics.
Methadone: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like opiate agonists, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the opiate agonist.
Methenamine; Sodium Acid Phosphate; Methylene Blue; Hyoscyamine: (Moderate) Trimethobenzamide has CNS depressant effects and may cause drowsiness. The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the anticholinergics, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the anticholinergic.
Methohexital: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with barbiturates may potentiate the CNS effects of either trimethobenzamide or the barbiturate.
Methscopolamine: (Moderate) Trimethobenzamide has CNS depressant effects and may cause drowsiness. The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the anticholinergics, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the anticholinergic.
Midazolam: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the benzodiazepines, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the benzodiazepine.
Morphine: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like opiate agonists, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the opiate agonist.
Nalbuphine: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like nalbuphine, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or nalbuphine.
Neostigmine; Glycopyrrolate: (Moderate) Trimethobenzamide has CNS depressant effects and may cause drowsiness. The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the anticholinergics, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the anticholinergic.
Oliceridine: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like opiate agonists, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the opiate agonist.
Opiate Agonists: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like opiate agonists, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the opiate agonist.
Oxazepam: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the benzodiazepines, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the benzodiazepine.
oxyBUTYnin: (Moderate) Trimethobenzamide has CNS depressant effects and may cause drowsiness. The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the anticholinergics, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the anticholinergic.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like opiate agonists, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the opiate agonist.
oxyMORphone: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like opiate agonists, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the opiate agonist.
Paromomycin: (Minor) Because of trimethobenzamide's antiemetic pharmacology, the drug may effectively mask dizziness, tinnitus, or vertigo that are associated with ototoxicity induced by various medications, including the aminoglycosides. Clinicians should be aware of this potential interaction and take it into consideration when monitoring for aminoglycoside-induced side effects.
Pentazocine; Naloxone: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like pentazocine, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or pentazocine.
PENTobarbital: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with barbiturates may potentiate the CNS effects of either trimethobenzamide or the barbiturate.
Perphenazine: (Moderate) Trimethobenzamide has CNS depressant effects and may cause drowsiness. The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression such as the phenothiazines may potentiate drowsiness or other common side effects of either medication. In addition, the administration of trimethobenzamide to patients who have recently received CNS-depressive drugs has resulted in opisthotonus, seizures, coma, and extrapyramidal symptoms.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Trimethobenzamide has CNS depressant effects and may cause drowsiness. The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression such as the phenothiazines may potentiate drowsiness or other common side effects of either medication. In addition, the administration of trimethobenzamide to patients who have recently received CNS-depressive drugs has resulted in opisthotonus, seizures, coma, and extrapyramidal symptoms.
PHENobarbital: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with barbiturates may potentiate the CNS effects of either trimethobenzamide or the barbiturate.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with barbiturates may potentiate the CNS effects of either trimethobenzamide or the barbiturate. (Moderate) Trimethobenzamide has CNS depressant effects and may cause drowsiness. The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the anticholinergics, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the anticholinergic.
Phenothiazines: (Moderate) Trimethobenzamide has CNS depressant effects and may cause drowsiness. The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression such as the phenothiazines may potentiate drowsiness or other common side effects of either medication. In addition, the administration of trimethobenzamide to patients who have recently received CNS-depressive drugs has resulted in opisthotonus, seizures, coma, and extrapyramidal symptoms.
Plazomicin: (Minor) Because of trimethobenzamide's antiemetic pharmacology, the drug may effectively mask dizziness, tinnitus, or vertigo that are associated with ototoxicity induced by various medications, including the aminoglycosides. Clinicians should be aware of this potential interaction and take it into consideration when monitoring for aminoglycoside-induced side effects.
Primidone: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with barbiturates may potentiate the CNS effects of either trimethobenzamide or the barbiturate.
Prochlorperazine: (Moderate) Trimethobenzamide has CNS depressant effects and may cause drowsiness. The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression such as the phenothiazines may potentiate drowsiness or other common side effects of either medication. In addition, the administration of trimethobenzamide to patients who have recently received CNS-depressive drugs has resulted in opisthotonus, seizures, coma, and extrapyramidal symptoms.
Promethazine: (Moderate) Trimethobenzamide has CNS depressant effects and may cause drowsiness. The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression such as the phenothiazines may potentiate drowsiness or other common side effects of either medication. In addition, the administration of trimethobenzamide to patients who have recently received CNS-depressive drugs has resulted in opisthotonus, seizures, coma, and extrapyramidal symptoms.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Trimethobenzamide has CNS depressant effects and may cause drowsiness. The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression such as the phenothiazines may potentiate drowsiness or other common side effects of either medication. In addition, the administration of trimethobenzamide to patients who have recently received CNS-depressive drugs has resulted in opisthotonus, seizures, coma, and extrapyramidal symptoms.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Trimethobenzamide has CNS depressant effects and may cause drowsiness. The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression such as the phenothiazines may potentiate drowsiness or other common side effects of either medication. In addition, the administration of trimethobenzamide to patients who have recently received CNS-depressive drugs has resulted in opisthotonus, seizures, coma, and extrapyramidal symptoms.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the sedating h1-blockers, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the sedating h1-blocker.
Quazepam: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the benzodiazepines, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the benzodiazepine.
Remifentanil: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like opiate agonists, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the opiate agonist.
Remimazolam: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the benzodiazepines, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the benzodiazepine.
Scopolamine: (Moderate) Trimethobenzamide has CNS depressant effects and may cause drowsiness. The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the anticholinergics, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the anticholinergic.
Secobarbital: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with barbiturates may potentiate the CNS effects of either trimethobenzamide or the barbiturate.
Sedating H1-blockers: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the sedating h1-blockers, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the sedating h1-blocker.
Sodium Oxybate: (Major) Sodium oxybate should not be used in combination with CNS depressants. Additive CNS depressant effects may be possible when sodium oxybate is used concurrently with drugs like trimethobenzamide.
Streptomycin: (Minor) Because of trimethobenzamide's antiemetic pharmacology, the drug may effectively mask dizziness, tinnitus, or vertigo that are associated with ototoxicity induced by various medications, including the aminoglycosides. Clinicians should be aware of this potential interaction and take it into consideration when monitoring for aminoglycoside-induced side effects.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like opiate agonists, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the opiate agonist.
Tapentadol: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like opiate agonists, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the opiate agonist.
Temazepam: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the benzodiazepines, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the benzodiazepine.
Thioridazine: (Moderate) Trimethobenzamide has CNS depressant effects and may cause drowsiness. The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression such as the phenothiazines may potentiate drowsiness or other common side effects of either medication. In addition, the administration of trimethobenzamide to patients who have recently received CNS-depressive drugs has resulted in opisthotonus, seizures, coma, and extrapyramidal symptoms.
Tobramycin: (Minor) Because of trimethobenzamide's antiemetic pharmacology, the drug may effectively mask dizziness, tinnitus, or vertigo that are associated with ototoxicity induced by various medications, including the aminoglycosides. Clinicians should be aware of this potential interaction and take it into consideration when monitoring for aminoglycoside-induced side effects.
traMADol: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like opiate agonists, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the opiate agonist.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like opiate agonists, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the opiate agonist.
Triazolam: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the benzodiazepines, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the benzodiazepine.
Trifluoperazine: (Moderate) Trimethobenzamide has CNS depressant effects and may cause drowsiness. The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression such as the phenothiazines may potentiate drowsiness or other common side effects of either medication. In addition, the administration of trimethobenzamide to patients who have recently received CNS-depressive drugs has resulted in opisthotonus, seizures, coma, and extrapyramidal symptoms.
Trihexyphenidyl: (Moderate) Trimethobenzamide has CNS depressant effects and may cause drowsiness. The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the anticholinergics, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the anticholinergic.
Triprolidine: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the sedating h1-blockers, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the sedating h1-blocker.
Zaleplon: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like anxiolytics, sedatives and hypnotics, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the anxiolytics, sedatives and hypnotics.
Zolpidem: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like anxiolytics, sedatives and hypnotics, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the anxiolytics, sedatives and hypnotics.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  NOTE: The manufacturing and distribution of trimethobenzamide suppositories has been suspended in the US. Various brand names, including Tigan(R), Tebamide(R), T-Gen(R), Trimazide(R), and Trimethobenz(R), are included in this action. The FDA has concluded that suppositories containing trimethobenzamide have not been proven to be effective in the treatment of nausea and vomiting in adults and children. Patients currently on this therapy are urged to contact their health care professionals for further information and to request alternative treatment. Oral and injectable formulations of trimethobenzamide are not affected by this action.Generally, adverse reactions to trimethobenzamide occur infrequently at usual dosages and seldom require drug discontinuation. Drowsiness is probably the most frequent side effect. Blurred vision, diarrhea, dizziness, headache, and muscle cramps are less frequent. More serious CNS symptoms such as coma, depression of mood, disorientation, extrapyramidal symptoms (e.g., pseudoparkinsonism, tremor), opisthotonus, and seizures have been reported rarely with trimethobenzamide administration. The recent use of other CNS-depressant medications may increase the risk for some side effects. If any of these adverse reactions occur, attempts should be made to determine if the symptoms are associated with the administration of the drug or with the condition being treated. If the adverse effects are due to the drug, the dosage of trimethobenzamide should be reduced or the drug discontinued.Hypersensitivity reactions including allergic skin rash (unspecified) have been reported. Trimethobenzamide should be discontinued at the first sign of hypersensitivity. Blood dyscrasias (e.g., agranulocytosis, leukopenia) and jaundice (cholestasis) have also occurred in some patients receiving trimethobenzamide, and may also indicate the occurrence of hypersensitivity reactions. Patients should be instructed to report for evaluation of sore throat with fever and unusual tiredness, or symptoms of jaundice. If sensitivity reactions are detected, trimethobenzamide should be discontinued and the drug should not be reintroduced.Hypotension has been reported following intramuscular injection of trimethobenzamide, particularly in surgical patients. Injection site reaction (pain, stinging, burning, redness, and swelling) may also occur after intramuscular injection. Local rectal irritation may occur following rectal administration.The use of centrally acting antiemetics in children with viral infection has reportedly been associated with an increased risk of developing Reye's syndrome (characterized by abrupt onset of persistent, severe vomiting; lethargy; irrational behavior; progressive encephalopathy leading to coma; seizures; and death); however, a causal relationship to the cause or course of Reye's syndrome has not been established. It has been suggested that drugs which are potentially hepatotoxic, including trimethobenzamide, may unfavorably alter the course of Reye's syndrome.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    The use of centrally acting antiemetics in children with viral infection has reportedly been associated with an increased risk of developing Reye's syndrome (characterized by abrupt onset of persistent, severe vomiting, lethargy, irrational behavior, progressive encephalopathy leading to coma, convulsions, and death); however, a causal relationship to the cause or course of Reye's syndrome has not been established. It has been suggested that drugs which are potentially hepatotoxic, including trimethobenzamide, may unfavorably alter the course of Reye's syndrome.
    Headline
    blurred vision, coma, diarrhea, dizziness, drowsiness, headache, muscle cramps, pseudoparkinsonism, seizures, tremor
    General Information
    Generally, adverse reactions to trimethobenzamide occur infrequently at usual dosages and seldom require drug discontinuation. Drowsiness is probably the most frequent side effect. Blurred vision, diarrhea, dizziness, headache, and muscle cramps are less frequent. More serious CNS symptoms such as coma, depression of mood, disorientation, extrapyramidal symptoms (e.g., pseudoparkinsonism, tremor), opisthotonus, and seizures have been reported rarely with trimethobenzamide administration. The recent use of other CNS-depressant medications may increase the risk for some side effects. If any of these adverse reactions occur, attempts should be made to determine if the symptoms are associated with the administration of the drug or with the condition being treated. If the adverse effects are due to the drug, the dosage of trimethobenzamide should be reduced or the drug discontinued.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      blurred vision
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      coma
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      muscle cramps
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      pseudoparkinsonism
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      seizures
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      tremor
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    agranulocytosis, angioedema, fever, jaundice, leukopenia, rash (unspecified)
    General Information
    Hypersensitivity reactions including angioedema and allergic skin rash (unspecified) have been reported. Trimethobenzamide should be discontinued at the first sign of hypersensitivity. Blood dyscrasias (e.g., agranulocytosis, leukopenia) and jaundice (cholestasis) have also occurred in some patients receiving trimethobenzamide, and may also indicate the occurrence of hypersensitivity reactions. Patients should be instructed to report for evaluation of sore throat with fever and unusual tiredness, or symptoms of jaundice. If sensitivity reactions are detected, trimethobenzamide should be discontinued and the drug should not be reintroduced.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      agranulocytosis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      jaundice
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      leukopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    hypotension, injection site reaction
    General Information
    Hypotension has been reported following intramuscular injection of trimethobenzamide, particularly in surgical patients. Injection site reaction (pain, stinging, burning, redness, and swelling) may also occur after intramuscular injection. Local rectal irritation may occur following rectal administration.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      injection site reaction
      Severity
      Minor

Description
  Text
  Trimethobenzamide is an oral and parenteral antiemetic agent. The products are indicated for the treatment of postoperative nausea and vomiting and for nausea associated with gastroenteritis. Structurally, the drug is a substituted benzamide with actions similar to metoclopramide, but trimethobenzamide is considered less potent. Trimethobenzamide should not be used in pediatric patients due to the risk of extrapyramidal signs and symptoms and other serious CNS effects. Trimethobenzamide rectal suppositories were discontinued from the market in 2007 after the FDA removed approval for the NDA, stating there was a lack of data supporting suppository effectiveness for the treatment of nausea and vomiting.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  The mechanism of action of trimethobenzamide as determined in animals is obscure, but may involve the chemoreceptor trigger zone (CTZ), an area in the medulla oblongata through which emetic impulses are conveyed to the vomiting center; direct impulses to the vomiting center apparently are not similarly inhibited. In dogs pretreated with trimethobenzamide, the emetic response to apomorphine is inhibited, while little or no protection is afforded against emesis induced by intragastric copper sulfate.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Following oral administration, the onset of action occurs within 10—40 minutes and lasts for approximately 3—4 hours. The relative systemic bioavailability of an oral dose is about 60% that of an IM dose; plasma concentrations of trimethobenzamide attained after a 400-mg oral dose are approximately equivalent to those attained following a 200-mg IM dose.
    Name
    Intramuscular Route
    Description
    After IM injection, the onset of action of trimethobenzamide is within 15—35 minutes and persists for 2—3 hours.
    Name
    Other Route(s)
    Description
    Rectal Route
The onset and duration of action of trimethobenzamide following rectal administration is not known.
  Text
  Trimethobenzamide is administered orally, intramuscularly, and rectally. 
 
Distribution of the drug into human body fluids and tissues has not been determined. Animal data suggest that trimethobenzamide and its metabolites are distributed mainly into the liver, kidneys, and lungs. Trimethobenzamide is generally cleared from the blood within 2 hours after a single dose; however, measurable concentrations may persist for over 24 hours in some patients. The exact route of metabolism in humans has not been clearly established. In animals, trimethobenzamide is metabolized primarily in the liver to the N-desmethyl and N-oxide metabolites and excreted in urine and feces (via biliary elimination). In humans, approximately 30—50% of a single dose is excreted in urine as unchanged drug within 48—72 hours following administration; 20% of an administered dose is excreted within 24 hours.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Trimethobenzamide capsules may be administered without regard to meals.
    Administration Details
      Name
      Intramuscular Administration
      Description
      Trimethobenzamide injection is for intramuscular administration only; do not administer intravenously.
Not for use in pediatric patients.
No dilution is necessary.
Intramuscular administration may cause pain, stinging, burning, redness and swelling at the site of injection. Such effects may be minimized by deep injection into the upper outer quadrant of the gluteal region, and by avoiding the escape of solution along the route.
    Name
    Injectable Administration
    Description
    Visually inspect parenteral products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    1200 mg/day PO; or 800 mg/day IM or PR.
    Name
    Elderly
    Max Dosage
    1200 mg/day PO; or 800 mg/day IM or PR.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    (weight 13.6—40.9 kg): 800 mg/day PO or PR.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    (weight 13.6—40.9 kg): 800 mg/day PO or PR or 15 mg/kg/day PO or PR.
 (weight < 13.6 kg): 400 mg/day PR or 15 mg/kg/day PR.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Not indicated by any route.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Use caution; specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available. Do not use in patients with jaundice or a history of trimethobenzamide-induced jaundice.
  Renal Impairment
  CrCl greater than 70 mL/minute: No dosage adjustment needed.
CrCl  70 mL/minute or less: Reduce the daily dosage by increasing the dosing interval and adjust as needed based upon therapeutic response and tolerability.
