=== Capreomycin (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 1228)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: NOTE:

Routes: intravenous; Common adult doses: 1 g/day (20 mg/kg/day) or 5 days/week IV/IM or 25 mg/kg/dose IV/IM 3 days/week.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): azotemia, nephrotoxicity, oliguria, renal tubular necrosis, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, hearing loss, ototoxicity, tinnitus, vertigo, eosinophilia, leukocytosis, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, elevated hepatic enzymes, hyperbilirubinemia, jaundice, fever, maculopapular rash, urticaria

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Capreomycin is contraindicated in patients with capreomycin hypersensitivity. Use caution in the administration of capreomycin to any patient who has demonstrated some form of allergy, particularly to drugs. NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market.

Brand Names
  - Capastat

Indication Specific Dosing
  General Information
  NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Intravenous or Intramuscular dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        15 mg/kg/dose IV or IM once daily or 5 days/week, or alternatively, 25 mg/kg/dose IV or IM 3 days/week. Daily dosing is preferred and is defined as 5- or 7 days/week. The FDA-approved dosage is 1 g IV or IM once daily (Max: 20 mg/kg/day) for 60 to 120 days, followed by 1 g IV or IM 3 days/week or twice weekly for a total treatment period of 12 to 24 months. Capreomycin is generally recommended as second-line therapy; duration is dependent on the site of involvement.
        Heading
        Infants†, Children†, and Adolescents†
        Dosage Description
        15 to 30 mg/kg/dose (Max: 1 g/dose) IV or IM once daily or 5 days/week, or alternatively 25 to 30 mg/kg/dose IV or IM twice weekly. Daily dosing is preferred and is defined as 5 or 7 days/week. Capreomycin is generally recommended as second-line therapy; duration is dependent on the site of involvement.
        Heading
        Neonates†
        Dosage Description
        15 to 30 mg/kg/dose IV or IM once daily. Although tuberculosis is rare in neonates, congenital and postnatal cases have been successfully treated with antitubercular agents. Capreomycin is generally recommended as second line therapy; duration is dependent on the site of involvement.
    Heading
    For the treatment of drug-susceptible tuberculosis infection as part of combination therapy

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    Capreomycin is contraindicated in patients with capreomycin hypersensitivity. Use caution in the administration of capreomycin to any patient who has demonstrated some form of allergy, particularly to drugs.
 
A partial neuromuscular blockade was demonstrated after large intravenous doses of capreomycin. This action was enhanced by ether anesthesia and was antagonized by neostigmine.
    Headline
    dehydration, nephrotoxicity, renal impairment
    General Information
    Use capreomycin with caution in patients with renal insufficiency, and weigh the risk of additional renal injury against the benefits to be derived from therapy. The risk of toxic reactions to capreomycin may be greater in patients with renal impairment. Patients with abnormal renal function or dehydration and patients receiving other nephrotoxic drugs are at much greater risk for developing acute tubular necrosis. Damage to the auditory and vestibular divisions of cranial nerve VIII has been associated with capreomycin given to patients with abnormal renal function or dehydration. Monitor renal function before starting capreomycin therapy and weekly during treatment. Reduce the capreomycin dosage in patients with known or suspected renal impairment. Simultaneous use of other parenteral antituberculosis agents with similar and irreversible nephrotoxicity is not recommended; use nonantituberculosis drugs with nephrotoxic potential concomitantly only with caution.
    Headline
    hearing impairment, ototoxicity
    General Information
    Use capreomycin with caution in patients with preexisting hearing impairment, and weigh the risk of additional cranial nerve VIII impairment against the benefits to be derived from therapy. Damage to the auditory and vestibular divisions of cranial nerve VIII has been associated with capreomycin given to patients with abnormal renal function or dehydration and in those receiving medications with additive auditory toxicities. Perform audiometric measurements and assessment of vestibular function before starting capreomycin and at regular intervals during treatment. Simultaneous use of other parenteral antituberculosis agents with similar and irreversible ototoxicity is not recommended; use nonantituberculosis drugs with ototoxic potential concomitantly only with caution.
    Headline
    hepatic disease
    General Information
    Serial tests of liver function have demonstrated a decrease in bromsulphthalein (BSP) excretion without change in AST or ALT in capreomycin-treated patients with preexisting hepatic disease. Abnormal results in liver function tests have occurred in many persons receiving capreomycin in combination with other antituberculosis agents that also are known to cause changes in hepatic function. The role of capreomycin in producing these abnormalities is not clear; however, periodic determinations of liver function are recommended. Most combination therapy for active TB disease includes more than 1 agent that may contribute to hepatotoxicity.
    Headline
    geriatric
    General Information
    In general, use cautious dose selection for a geriatric adult, usually starting at the low end of the dosing range. The geriatric population is also more likely to have impaired hearing at baseline. Perform audiometric measurements and assessment of vestibular function before starting capreomycin and at regular intervals during treatment.
    Headline
    children, infants, neonates
    General Information
    Safety and effectiveness have not been established in neonates, infants, or children. Although capreomycin is not FDA-approved for pediatric use, tuberculosis guidelines include pediatric dosing recommendations.
    Headline
    mortality
    General Information
    The use of capreomycin for multi-drug resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) may be associated with worse clinical outcomes, specifically decreased effectiveness and increased mortality, compared with other parenteral therapy. In persons who require parenteral therapy, reserve capreomycin for use in infections with resistance to aminoglycosides and those with limited treatment options.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    The safety of the use of capreomycin in pregnancy has not been established. Use capreomycin during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus. There are no adequate and well-controlled studies in pregnant women. Capreomycin has been shown to be teratogenic in rats when given in doses 3.5 times the human dose. In teratology studies, a low incidence of "wavy ribs" was noted in litters of female rats treated with daily doses of capreomycin 50 mg/kg or more.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    It is unknown whether capreomycin is excreted in human milk. Use caution when capreomycin is administered to a breast-feeding woman. If capreomycin is ingested, toxicity would be unlikely because it is poorly absorbed (less than 1%) from an intact gastrointestinal system. Capreomycin use as part of multidrug regimens to treat 2 pregnant women with multidrug-resistant tuberculosis, 1 throughout pregnancy and postpartum and the other postpartum only, has been reported. The infants were breast-fed and developing normally except for a mild speech delay in 1 infant and hyperactivity in the other.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    The safety of the use of capreomycin in pregnancy has not been established. Use capreomycin during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus. There are no adequate and well-controlled studies in pregnant women. Capreomycin has been shown to be teratogenic in rats when given in doses 3.5 times the human dose. In teratology studies, a low incidence of "wavy ribs" was noted in litters of female rats treated with daily doses of capreomycin 50 mg/kg or more.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    It is unknown whether capreomycin is excreted in human milk. Use caution when capreomycin is administered to a breast-feeding woman. If capreomycin is ingested, toxicity would be unlikely because it is poorly absorbed (less than 1%) from an intact gastrointestinal system. Capreomycin use as part of multidrug regimens to treat 2 pregnant women with multidrug-resistant tuberculosis, 1 throughout pregnancy and postpartum and the other postpartum only, has been reported. The infants were breast-fed and developing normally except for a mild speech delay in 1 infant and hyperactivity in the other.

Interactions
AbobotulinumtoxinA: (Moderate) The effects of Botulinum Toxins could be potentiated by drugs that interfere with neuromuscular transmission, such as capreomycin.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Major) Since capreomycin is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including salicylates, may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Major) Since capreomycin is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including salicylates, may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin: (Major) Since capreomycin is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including salicylates, may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Major) Since capreomycin is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including salicylates, may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Acetaminophen; Ibuprofen: (Major) Because capreomycin is primarily eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Acyclovir: (Major) Since capreomycin is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including acyclovir, may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Amikacin: (Major) The concomitant use of capreomycin and aminoglycosides may increase the risk of nephrotoxicity and neurotoxicity. Since capreomycin is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration of capreomycin with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including aminoglycosides may increase serum concentrations of either capreomycin or aminoglycosides. Theoretically, coadministration may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered. Additionally, neuromuscular blockade has been associated with capreomycin resulting from administration of large doses or rapid intravenous infusion. Aminoglycosides have also been reported to interfere with nerve transmission at the neuromuscular junction. Concomitant administration of capreomycin with aminoglycosides should be avoided if possible; however, if they must be coadministered, use extreme caution.
Aminoglycosides: (Major) The concomitant use of capreomycin and aminoglycosides may increase the risk of nephrotoxicity and neurotoxicity. Since capreomycin is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration of capreomycin with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including aminoglycosides may increase serum concentrations of either capreomycin or aminoglycosides. Theoretically, coadministration may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered. Additionally, neuromuscular blockade has been associated with capreomycin resulting from administration of large doses or rapid intravenous infusion. Aminoglycosides have also been reported to interfere with nerve transmission at the neuromuscular junction. Concomitant administration of capreomycin with aminoglycosides should be avoided if possible; however, if they must be coadministered, use extreme caution.
Aminosalicylate sodium, Aminosalicylic acid: (Major) Since capreomycin is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including salicylates, may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Major) Because capreomycin is primarily eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Amphotericin B lipid complex (ABLC): (Major) Since capreomycin is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including amphotericin B, may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Amphotericin B liposomal (LAmB): (Major) Since capreomycin is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including amphotericin B, may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Amphotericin B: (Major) Since capreomycin is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including amphotericin B, may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Aspirin, ASA: (Major) Since capreomycin is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including salicylates, may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Since capreomycin is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including salicylates, may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Major) Since capreomycin is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including salicylates, may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Major) Since capreomycin is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including salicylates, may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Major) Since capreomycin is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including salicylates, may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Major) Since capreomycin is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including salicylates, may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Aspirin, ASA; Dipyridamole: (Major) Since capreomycin is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including salicylates, may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Major) Since capreomycin is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including salicylates, may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Major) Since capreomycin is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including salicylates, may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Atracurium: (Minor) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and capreomycin may prolong neuromuscular blockade. A partial neuromuscular blockade was demonstrated after large intravenous doses of capreomycin.
Bacillus Calmette-Guerin Vaccine, BCG: (Major) Urinary concentrations of capreomycin could interfere with the therapeutic effectiveness of BCG. Postpone instillation of BCG if the patient is receiving antibiotics.
Bacitracin: (Major) Since capreomycin is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including bacitracin, may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Major) Since capreomycin is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including salicylates, may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Bismuth Subsalicylate: (Major) Since capreomycin is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including salicylates, may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Major) Since capreomycin is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including salicylates, may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Botulinum Toxins: (Moderate) The effects of Botulinum Toxins could be potentiated by drugs that interfere with neuromuscular transmission, such as capreomycin.
Bumetanide: (Moderate) The risk of ototoxicity or nephrotoxicity secondary to capreomycin may be increased by the addition of concomitant therapies with similar side effects, including loop diuretics. Ototoxicity from furosemide or other loop diuretics, while uncommon, can be a transient or permanent side effect of significance. Ototoxicity is best documented with the loop diuretics ethacrynic acid and furosemide, but may also occur with either bumetanide or torsemide. The exact mechanism by which furosemide or other loop diuretics produce ototoxicity is unknown. Usually, reports indicate that furosemide ototoxicity is associated with rapid injection, severe renal impairment, higher than recommended dosages or infusion rates, or concomitant therapy with aminoglycoside antibiotics, ethacrynic acid, or other ototoxic drugs. If loop diuretics and capreomycin are used together, it would be prudent to monitor renal function parameters, serum electrolytes, and serum aminoglycoside concentrations during therapy. Audiologic monitoring may be advisable during high dose therapy or therapy of long duration, when hearing loss is suspected, or in selected risk groups (e.g., neonates).
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Major) Because capreomycin is primarily eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Since capreomycin is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including salicylates, may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
CARBOplatin: (Major) Since capreomycin is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including carboplatin, may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Celecoxib: (Major) Because capreomycin is primarily eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Major) Because capreomycin is primarily eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Because capreomycin is primarily eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Choline Salicylate; Magnesium Salicylate: (Major) Since capreomycin is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including salicylates, may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Cidofovir: (Major) Since capreomycin is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including cidofovir, may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Cisatracurium: (Minor) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and capreomycin may prolong neuromuscular blockade. A partial neuromuscular blockade was demonstrated after large intravenous doses of capreomycin.
CISplatin: (Moderate) Closely monitor renal function and hearing ability if concomitant use with cisplatin and capreomycin is necessary. Both cisplatin and capreomycin can cause nephrotoxicity and ototoxicity, which may be exacerbated with the use of other nephrotoxic and ototoxic drugs.
Clindamycin: (Moderate) Partial neuromuscular blockade has been reported with capreomycin after the administration of large intravenous doses or rapid intravenous infusion. Clindamycin could potentiate the neuromuscular blocking effect of capreomycin by impairing transmission of impulses at the motor nerve terminals. If these drugs are used in combination, monitor patients for increased adverse effects.
Colistimethate, Colistin, Polymyxin E: (Major) Avoid concomitant administration of capreomycin with colistimethate sodium if possible; however, if they must be coadministered, use extreme caution. Concurrent use of capreomycin and colistimethate sodium may increase the risk of nephrotoxicity and neurotoxicity. Since capreomycin is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs like colistimethate sodium may increase serum concentrations of either capreomycin or colistimethate sodium. Theoretically, coadministration may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered. Additionally, neuromuscular blockade has been associated with capreomycin resulting from administration of large doses or rapid intravenous infusion. Colistimethate sodium has also been reported to interfere with nerve impulse transmission at the neuromuscular junction.
Colistin: (Major) Avoid concomitant administration of capreomycin with colistimethate sodium if possible; however, if they must be coadministered, use extreme caution. Concurrent use of capreomycin and colistimethate sodium may increase the risk of nephrotoxicity and neurotoxicity. Since capreomycin is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs like colistimethate sodium may increase serum concentrations of either capreomycin or colistimethate sodium. Theoretically, coadministration may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered. Additionally, neuromuscular blockade has been associated with capreomycin resulting from administration of large doses or rapid intravenous infusion. Colistimethate sodium has also been reported to interfere with nerve impulse transmission at the neuromuscular junction.
cycloSPORINE: (Major) Since capreomycin is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including cyclosporine, may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
DaxibotulinumtoxinA: (Moderate) The effects of Botulinum Toxins could be potentiated by drugs that interfere with neuromuscular transmission, such as capreomycin.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Moderate) Partial neuromuscular blockade has been reported with capreomycin after the administration of large intravenous doses or rapid intravenous infusion. Quinidine could potentiate the neuromuscular blocking effect of capreomycin by impairing transmission of impulses at the motor nerve terminals. If these drugs are used in combination, monitor patients for increased adverse effects.
Diclofenac: (Major) Because capreomycin is primarily eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Major) Because capreomycin is primarily eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Diflunisal: (Major) Because capreomycin is primarily eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Major) Because capreomycin is primarily eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Major) Because capreomycin is primarily eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Entecavir: (Major) Because entecavir is primarily eliminated by the kidneys and capreomycin could affect renal function, concurrent administration may increase entecavir serum concentrations and the risk of adverse events. The manufacturer of entecavir recommends monitoring for adverse effects when administered with potentially nephrotoxic agents, such as capreomycin.
Ethacrynic Acid: (Moderate) The risk of ototoxicity or nephrotoxicity secondary to capreomycin may be increased by the addition of concomitant therapies with similar side effects, including loop diuretics. Ototoxicity from furosemide or other loop diuretics, while uncommon, can be a transient or permanent side effect of significance. Ototoxicity is best documented with the loop diuretics ethacrynic acid and furosemide, but may also occur with either bumetanide or torsemide. The exact mechanism by which furosemide or other loop diuretics produce ototoxicity is unknown. Usually, reports indicate that furosemide ototoxicity is associated with rapid injection, severe renal impairment, higher than recommended dosages or infusion rates, or concomitant therapy with aminoglycoside antibiotics, ethacrynic acid, or other ototoxic drugs. If loop diuretics and capreomycin are used together, it would be prudent to monitor renal function parameters, serum electrolytes, and serum aminoglycoside concentrations during therapy. Audiologic monitoring may be advisable during high dose therapy or therapy of long duration, when hearing loss is suspected, or in selected risk groups (e.g., neonates).
Ethambutol: (Moderate) Adverse hepatic effects have been associated with capreomycin, especially with concurrent use of other antituberculosis drugs known to alter hepatic function. Theoretically, coadministration of capreomycin and ethambutol could increase the risk of hepatotoxicity. Monitor patients for changes in liver function if these drugs are coadministered.
Ethiodized Oil: (Major) Because the use of other nephrotoxic drugs, including capreomycin, is an additive risk factor for nephrotoxicity in patients receiving radiopaque contrast agents, concomitant use should be avoided when possible. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Ethionamide: (Moderate) Adverse hepatic effects have been associated with capreomycin, especially with concurrent use of other antituberculosis drugs known to alter hepatic function. Theoretically, coadministration of capreomycin and ethionamide could increase the risk of hepatotoxicity. Monitor patients for changes in liver function if these drugs are coadministered.
Etodolac: (Major) Because capreomycin is primarily eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Etomidate: (Moderate) Partial neuromuscular blockade has been reported with capreomycin after the administration of large intravenous doses or rapid intravenous infusion. General anesthetics could potentiate the neuromuscular blocking effect of capreomycin by transmission of impulses at the motor nerve terminals. If these drugs are used in combination, monitor patients for increased adverse effects.
Fenoprofen: (Major) Because capreomycin is primarily eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Flurbiprofen: (Major) Because capreomycin is primarily eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Foscarnet: (Major) Because capreomycin is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including foscarnet, may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Furosemide: (Moderate) The risk of ototoxicity or nephrotoxicity secondary to capreomycin may be increased by the addition of concomitant therapies with similar side effects, including loop diuretics. Ototoxicity from furosemide or other loop diuretics, while uncommon, can be a transient or permanent side effect of significance. Ototoxicity is best documented with the loop diuretics ethacrynic acid and furosemide, but may also occur with either bumetanide or torsemide. The exact mechanism by which furosemide or other loop diuretics produce ototoxicity is unknown. Usually, reports indicate that furosemide ototoxicity is associated with rapid injection, severe renal impairment, higher than recommended dosages or infusion rates, or concomitant therapy with aminoglycoside antibiotics, ethacrynic acid, or other ototoxic drugs. If loop diuretics and capreomycin are used together, it would be prudent to monitor renal function parameters, serum electrolytes, and serum aminoglycoside concentrations during therapy. Audiologic monitoring may be advisable during high dose therapy or therapy of long duration, when hearing loss is suspected, or in selected risk groups (e.g., neonates).
Ganciclovir: (Major) Since capreomycin is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including ganciclovir, may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
General anesthetics: (Moderate) Partial neuromuscular blockade has been reported with capreomycin after the administration of large intravenous doses or rapid intravenous infusion. General anesthetics could potentiate the neuromuscular blocking effect of capreomycin by transmission of impulses at the motor nerve terminals. If these drugs are used in combination, monitor patients for increased adverse effects.
Gentamicin: (Major) The concomitant use of capreomycin and aminoglycosides may increase the risk of nephrotoxicity and neurotoxicity. Since capreomycin is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration of capreomycin with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including aminoglycosides may increase serum concentrations of either capreomycin or aminoglycosides. Theoretically, coadministration may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered. Additionally, neuromuscular blockade has been associated with capreomycin resulting from administration of large doses or rapid intravenous infusion. Aminoglycosides have also been reported to interfere with nerve transmission at the neuromuscular junction. Concomitant administration of capreomycin with aminoglycosides should be avoided if possible; however, if they must be coadministered, use extreme caution.
Hyaluronidase, Recombinant; Immune Globulin: (Moderate) Immune Globulin (IG) products have been reported to be associated with renal dysfunction, acute renal failure, osmotic nephrosis, and death. Patients predisposed to acute renal failure include patients receiving known nephrotoxic drugs like capreomycin. Coadminister IG products at the minimum concentration available and the minimum rate of infusion practicable. Also, closely monitor renal function.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Major) Because capreomycin is primarily eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Major) Since capreomycin is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including salicylates, may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Ibuprofen: (Major) Because capreomycin is primarily eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Major) Because capreomycin is primarily eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Because capreomycin is primarily eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Immune Globulin (IVIG, IMIG, SCIG): (Moderate) Immune Globulin (IG) products have been reported to be associated with renal dysfunction, acute renal failure, osmotic nephrosis, and death. Patients predisposed to acute renal failure include patients receiving known nephrotoxic drugs like capreomycin. Coadminister IG products at the minimum concentration available and the minimum rate of infusion practicable. Also, closely monitor renal function.
IncobotulinumtoxinA: (Moderate) The effects of Botulinum Toxins could be potentiated by drugs that interfere with neuromuscular transmission, such as capreomycin.
Indomethacin: (Major) Because capreomycin is primarily eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Iodixanol: (Major) Because the use of other nephrotoxic drugs, including capreomycin, is an additive risk factor for nephrotoxicity in patients receiving radiopaque contrast agents, concomitant use should be avoided when possible. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Iohexol: (Major) Because the use of other nephrotoxic drugs, including capreomycin, is an additive risk factor for nephrotoxicity in patients receiving radiopaque contrast agents, concomitant use should be avoided when possible. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Iomeprol: (Major) Because the use of other nephrotoxic drugs, including capreomycin, is an additive risk factor for nephrotoxicity in patients receiving radiopaque contrast agents, concomitant use should be avoided when possible. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Iopamidol: (Major) Because the use of other nephrotoxic drugs, including capreomycin, is an additive risk factor for nephrotoxicity in patients receiving radiopaque contrast agents, concomitant use should be avoided when possible. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Iopromide: (Major) Because the use of other nephrotoxic drugs, including capreomycin, is an additive risk factor for nephrotoxicity in patients receiving radiopaque contrast agents, concomitant use should be avoided when possible. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Ioversol: (Major) Because the use of other nephrotoxic drugs, including capreomycin, is an additive risk factor for nephrotoxicity in patients receiving radiopaque contrast agents, concomitant use should be avoided when possible. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Isoflurane: (Moderate) Partial neuromuscular blockade has been reported with capreomycin after the administration of large intravenous doses or rapid intravenous infusion. General anesthetics could potentiate the neuromuscular blocking effect of capreomycin by transmission of impulses at the motor nerve terminals. If these drugs are used in combination, monitor patients for increased adverse effects.
Isoniazid, INH: (Moderate) Adverse hepatic effects have been associated with capreomycin, especially with concurrent use of other antituberculosis drugs known to alter hepatic function. Theoretically, coadministration of capreomycin and isoniazid, INH could increase the risk of hepatotoxicity. Monitor patients for changes in liver function if these drugs are coadministered.
Isosulfan Blue: (Major) Because the use of other nephrotoxic drugs, including capreomycin, is an additive risk factor for nephrotoxicity in patients receiving radiopaque contrast agents, concomitant use should be avoided when possible. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Ketamine: (Moderate) Partial neuromuscular blockade has been reported with capreomycin after the administration of large intravenous doses or rapid intravenous infusion. General anesthetics could potentiate the neuromuscular blocking effect of capreomycin by transmission of impulses at the motor nerve terminals. If these drugs are used in combination, monitor patients for increased adverse effects.
Ketoprofen: (Major) Because capreomycin is primarily eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Ketorolac: (Major) Because capreomycin is primarily eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Lidocaine: (Moderate) Partial neuromuscular blockade has been reported with capreomycin after the administration of large intravenous doses or rapid intravenous infusion. Lidocaine could potentiate the neuromuscular blocking effect of capreomycin by impairing transmission of impulses at the motor nerve terminals. If these drugs are used in combination, monitor patients for increased adverse effects.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Partial neuromuscular blockade has been reported with capreomycin after the administration of large intravenous doses or rapid intravenous infusion. Lidocaine could potentiate the neuromuscular blocking effect of capreomycin by impairing transmission of impulses at the motor nerve terminals. If these drugs are used in combination, monitor patients for increased adverse effects.
Lidocaine; Prilocaine: (Moderate) Partial neuromuscular blockade has been reported with capreomycin after the administration of large intravenous doses or rapid intravenous infusion. Lidocaine could potentiate the neuromuscular blocking effect of capreomycin by impairing transmission of impulses at the motor nerve terminals. If these drugs are used in combination, monitor patients for increased adverse effects.
Lithium: (Moderate) Partial neuromuscular blockade has been reported with capreomycin after the administration of large intravenous doses or rapid intravenous infusion. Lithium could potentiate the neuromuscular blocking effect of capreomycin by impairing transmission of impulses at the motor nerve terminals. If these drugs are used in combination, monitor patients for increased adverse effects.
Loop diuretics: (Moderate) The risk of ototoxicity or nephrotoxicity secondary to capreomycin may be increased by the addition of concomitant therapies with similar side effects, including loop diuretics. Ototoxicity from furosemide or other loop diuretics, while uncommon, can be a transient or permanent side effect of significance. Ototoxicity is best documented with the loop diuretics ethacrynic acid and furosemide, but may also occur with either bumetanide or torsemide. The exact mechanism by which furosemide or other loop diuretics produce ototoxicity is unknown. Usually, reports indicate that furosemide ototoxicity is associated with rapid injection, severe renal impairment, higher than recommended dosages or infusion rates, or concomitant therapy with aminoglycoside antibiotics, ethacrynic acid, or other ototoxic drugs. If loop diuretics and capreomycin are used together, it would be prudent to monitor renal function parameters, serum electrolytes, and serum aminoglycoside concentrations during therapy. Audiologic monitoring may be advisable during high dose therapy or therapy of long duration, when hearing loss is suspected, or in selected risk groups (e.g., neonates).
Magnesium Salicylate: (Major) Since capreomycin is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including salicylates, may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Meclofenamate Sodium: (Major) Because capreomycin is primarily eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Mefenamic Acid: (Major) Because capreomycin is primarily eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Meloxicam: (Major) Because capreomycin is primarily eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Major) Because capreomycin is primarily eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Methenamine; Sodium Salicylate: (Major) Since capreomycin is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including salicylates, may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Nabumetone: (Major) Because capreomycin is primarily eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Naproxen: (Major) Because capreomycin is primarily eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Major) Because capreomycin is primarily eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Because capreomycin is primarily eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Neuromuscular blockers: (Minor) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and capreomycin may prolong neuromuscular blockade. A partial neuromuscular blockade was demonstrated after large intravenous doses of capreomycin.
Non-Ionic Contrast Media: (Major) Because the use of other nephrotoxic drugs, including capreomycin, is an additive risk factor for nephrotoxicity in patients receiving radiopaque contrast agents, concomitant use should be avoided when possible. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs: (Major) Because capreomycin is primarily eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Moderate) Adverse hepatic effects have been associated with capreomycin, especially with concurrent use of other antituberculosis drugs known to alter hepatic function. Theoretically, coadministration of capreomycin and any of the rifamycins could increase the risk of hepatotoxicity. Monitor patients for changes in liver function if these drugs are coadministered.
OnabotulinumtoxinA: (Moderate) The effects of Botulinum Toxins could be potentiated by drugs that interfere with neuromuscular transmission, such as capreomycin.
Oxaprozin: (Major) Because capreomycin is primarily eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Pamidronate: (Major) Since capreomycin is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including pamidronate, may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Paromomycin: (Major) The concomitant use of capreomycin and aminoglycosides may increase the risk of nephrotoxicity and neurotoxicity. Since capreomycin is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration of capreomycin with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including aminoglycosides may increase serum concentrations of either capreomycin or aminoglycosides. Theoretically, coadministration may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered. Additionally, neuromuscular blockade has been associated with capreomycin resulting from administration of large doses or rapid intravenous infusion. Aminoglycosides have also been reported to interfere with nerve transmission at the neuromuscular junction. Concomitant administration of capreomycin with aminoglycosides should be avoided if possible; however, if they must be coadministered, use extreme caution.
Piroxicam: (Major) Because capreomycin is primarily eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Plazomicin: (Major) The concomitant use of capreomycin and aminoglycosides may increase the risk of nephrotoxicity and neurotoxicity. Since capreomycin is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration of capreomycin with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including aminoglycosides may increase serum concentrations of either capreomycin or aminoglycosides. Theoretically, coadministration may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered. Additionally, neuromuscular blockade has been associated with capreomycin resulting from administration of large doses or rapid intravenous infusion. Aminoglycosides have also been reported to interfere with nerve transmission at the neuromuscular junction. Concomitant administration of capreomycin with aminoglycosides should be avoided if possible; however, if they must be coadministered, use extreme caution.
Polymyxin B: (Major) The concomitant use of capreomycin and polymyxin B may increase the risk of nephrotoxicity and neurotoxicity. Since capreomycin is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration of capreomycin with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including polymyxin B, may increase serum concentrations of either capreomycin or polymyxin B. Coadministration may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function; monitor for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered. Additionally, neuromuscular blockade has been associated with capreomycin resulting from administration of large doses or rapid intravenous infusion. Polymyxin B has also been reported to interfere with nerve transmission at the neuromuscular junction. Avoid coadministration if possible; however, if these drugs must be coadministered, use extreme caution.
Procainamide: (Moderate) Partial neuromuscular blockade has been reported with capreomycin after the administration of large intravenous doses or rapid intravenous infusion. Procainamide could potentiate the neuromuscular blocking effect of capreomycin by impairing transmission of impulses at the motor nerve terminals. If these drugs are used in combination, monitor patients for increased adverse effects.
Propofol: (Moderate) Partial neuromuscular blockade has been reported with capreomycin after the administration of large intravenous doses or rapid intravenous infusion. General anesthetics could potentiate the neuromuscular blocking effect of capreomycin by transmission of impulses at the motor nerve terminals. If these drugs are used in combination, monitor patients for increased adverse effects.
quiNIDine: (Moderate) Partial neuromuscular blockade has been reported with capreomycin after the administration of large intravenous doses or rapid intravenous infusion. Quinidine could potentiate the neuromuscular blocking effect of capreomycin by impairing transmission of impulses at the motor nerve terminals. If these drugs are used in combination, monitor patients for increased adverse effects.
Rifabutin: (Moderate) Adverse hepatic effects have been associated with capreomycin, especially with concurrent use of other antituberculosis drugs known to alter hepatic function. Theoretically, coadministration of capreomycin and any of the rifamycins could increase the risk of hepatotoxicity. Monitor patients for changes in liver function if these drugs are coadministered.
rifAMPin: (Moderate) Adverse hepatic effects have been associated with capreomycin, especially with concurrent use of other antituberculosis drugs known to alter hepatic function. Theoretically, coadministration of capreomycin and any of the rifamycins could increase the risk of hepatotoxicity. Monitor patients for changes in liver function if these drugs are coadministered.
Rifamycins: (Moderate) Adverse hepatic effects have been associated with capreomycin, especially with concurrent use of other antituberculosis drugs known to alter hepatic function. Theoretically, coadministration of capreomycin and any of the rifamycins could increase the risk of hepatotoxicity. Monitor patients for changes in liver function if these drugs are coadministered.
Rifapentine: (Moderate) Adverse hepatic effects have been associated with capreomycin, especially with concurrent use of other antituberculosis drugs known to alter hepatic function. Theoretically, coadministration of capreomycin and any of the rifamycins could increase the risk of hepatotoxicity. Monitor patients for changes in liver function if these drugs are coadministered.
RimabotulinumtoxinB: (Moderate) The effects of Botulinum Toxins could be potentiated by drugs that interfere with neuromuscular transmission, such as capreomycin.
Rocuronium: (Minor) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and capreomycin may prolong neuromuscular blockade. A partial neuromuscular blockade was demonstrated after large intravenous doses of capreomycin.
Salicylates: (Major) Since capreomycin is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including salicylates, may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Salsalate: (Major) Since capreomycin is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including salicylates, may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Sevoflurane: (Moderate) Partial neuromuscular blockade has been reported with capreomycin after the administration of large intravenous doses or rapid intravenous infusion. General anesthetics could potentiate the neuromuscular blocking effect of capreomycin by transmission of impulses at the motor nerve terminals. If these drugs are used in combination, monitor patients for increased adverse effects.
Streptomycin: (Major) The concomitant use of capreomycin and aminoglycosides may increase the risk of nephrotoxicity and neurotoxicity. Since capreomycin is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration of capreomycin with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including aminoglycosides may increase serum concentrations of either capreomycin or aminoglycosides. Theoretically, coadministration may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered. Additionally, neuromuscular blockade has been associated with capreomycin resulting from administration of large doses or rapid intravenous infusion. Aminoglycosides have also been reported to interfere with nerve transmission at the neuromuscular junction. Concomitant administration of capreomycin with aminoglycosides should be avoided if possible; however, if they must be coadministered, use extreme caution.
Succinylcholine: (Minor) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and capreomycin may prolong neuromuscular blockade. A partial neuromuscular blockade was demonstrated after large intravenous doses of capreomycin.
Sulindac: (Major) Because capreomycin is primarily eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Major) Because capreomycin is primarily eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Tacrolimus: (Major) Since capreomycin is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including tacrolimus, may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Tobramycin: (Major) The concomitant use of capreomycin and aminoglycosides may increase the risk of nephrotoxicity and neurotoxicity. Since capreomycin is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration of capreomycin with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including aminoglycosides may increase serum concentrations of either capreomycin or aminoglycosides. Theoretically, coadministration may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered. Additionally, neuromuscular blockade has been associated with capreomycin resulting from administration of large doses or rapid intravenous infusion. Aminoglycosides have also been reported to interfere with nerve transmission at the neuromuscular junction. Concomitant administration of capreomycin with aminoglycosides should be avoided if possible; however, if they must be coadministered, use extreme caution.
Tolmetin: (Major) Because capreomycin is primarily eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Torsemide: (Moderate) The risk of ototoxicity or nephrotoxicity secondary to capreomycin may be increased by the addition of concomitant therapies with similar side effects, including loop diuretics. Ototoxicity from furosemide or other loop diuretics, while uncommon, can be a transient or permanent side effect of significance. Ototoxicity is best documented with the loop diuretics ethacrynic acid and furosemide, but may also occur with either bumetanide or torsemide. The exact mechanism by which furosemide or other loop diuretics produce ototoxicity is unknown. Usually, reports indicate that furosemide ototoxicity is associated with rapid injection, severe renal impairment, higher than recommended dosages or infusion rates, or concomitant therapy with aminoglycoside antibiotics, ethacrynic acid, or other ototoxic drugs. If loop diuretics and capreomycin are used together, it would be prudent to monitor renal function parameters, serum electrolytes, and serum aminoglycoside concentrations during therapy. Audiologic monitoring may be advisable during high dose therapy or therapy of long duration, when hearing loss is suspected, or in selected risk groups (e.g., neonates).
valACYclovir: (Major) Since capreomycin is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including valacyclovir, may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are administered concurrently.
Vancomycin: (Major) Since capreomycin is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration of with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including vancomycin, may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Vecuronium: (Minor) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and capreomycin may prolong neuromuscular blockade. A partial neuromuscular blockade was demonstrated after large intravenous doses of capreomycin.
Zoledronic Acid: (Major) Since capreomycin is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including zoledronic acid, may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
    Headline
    azotemia, nephrotoxicity, oliguria, renal tubular necrosis
    General Information
    Nephrotoxicity, with renal tubular necrosis, elevation of the blood urea nitrogen (BUN) (azotemia) or serum creatinine, and abnormal urinary sediment, has been noted with capreomycin. Slight elevation of the BUN and serum creatinine has been observed in a significant number of patients receiving prolonged capreomycin therapy. In 36% of 722 patients treated with capreomycin, elevation of the BUN above 20 mg/100 mL has been observed. In many instances, there was also depression of phenolsulfonphthalein (PSP) excretion and abnormal urine sediment. In 10% of this series, the BUN elevation exceeded 30 mg/100 mL. The appearance of casts, red cells, and white cells in the urine has been noted in a high percentage of these cases. Carefully evaluate any patient with elevation of the BUN above 30 mg/100 mL or any other evidence of decreasing renal function with or without a rise in BUN concentrations, and reduce the dosage or discontinue capreomycin. The clinical significance of abnormal urine sediment and slight elevation in the BUN (or serum creatinine) observed during long-term therapy with capreomycin has not been established. A fatal case of toxic nephritis complicated by renal insufficiency and oliguria was reported in an individual with tuberculosis and portal cirrhosis undergoing daily treatment with capreomycin and aminosalicylic acid for 1 month. Autopsy performed on this patient revealed acute tubular necrosis. Monitor renal function before starting capreomycin and weekly during treatment.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      azotemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      oliguria
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      renal tubular necrosis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      nephrotoxicity
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia
    General Information
    Electrolyte disturbances including hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, and hypocalcemia have been rarely reported in patients receiving capreomycin. Monitor electrolytes, especially potassium concentrations, frequently during therapy with capreomycin.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypocalcemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypokalemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      hypomagnesemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hearing loss, ototoxicity, tinnitus, vertigo
    General Information
    Capreomycin therapy has been associated with ototoxicity due to effects on the auditory and vestibular divisions of the eighth cranial nerve. In 722 patients receiving capreomycin injections, subclinical hearing loss (5 to 10 decibel loss) was reported in 11% of patients and clinically apparent hearing loss was observed in 3% of patients. Audiometric changes may be reversible, but cases of permanent hearing loss have been reported. Additional adverse effects include tinnitus and vertigo. Risk of adverse effects is greatest in patients with impaired renal function and patients with pre-existing auditory impairment. Measurement of eighth cranial nerve function should be performed prior to initiation of capreomycin and at regular intervals during therapy.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hearing loss
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      tinnitus
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vertigo
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      ototoxicity
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    eosinophilia, leukocytosis, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia
    General Information
    Hematologic adverse effects including eosinophilia, leukocytosis, leukopenia, and, rarely, thrombocytopenia have been observed in patients receiving capreomycin therapy. The most common adverse hematologic effect observed in patients receiving daily injections of capreomycin was eosinophilia exceeding 5%, which subsided with a dosage reduction to 2 or 3 g weekly.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      eosinophilia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      leukocytosis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      leukopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes, hyperbilirubinemia, jaundice
    General Information
    Serial tests of liver function have demonstrated a decrease in bromsulphthalein (BSP) excretion without change in AST or ALT in capreomycin-treated patients with preexisting hepatic disease. Abnormal results in liver function tests have occurred in many persons receiving capreomycin in combination with other antituberculosis agents that also are known to cause changes in hepatic function. The role of capreomycin in producing these abnormalities is not clear; however, periodic determinations of liver function are recommended. Hyperbilirubinemia, elevated hepatic enzymes (serum transaminases and alkaline phosphatase), and jaundice have been reported during concomitant use of capreomycin and other antituberculosis agents known to produce hepatotoxic effects. Elevated hepatic enzymes are common when the drug is used in combination with other agents for tuberculosis. A causal relationship between the use of capreomycin and these adverse hepatic effects has not been established. Most combination therapy for active TB disease includes more than 1 agent that may contribute to hepatotoxicity.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hyperbilirubinemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      jaundice
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    bleeding, injection site reaction
    General Information
    An injection site reaction such as pain and induration is commonly reported with intramuscular use of capreomycin. Sterile abscesses and excessive bleeding at the injection site have also been reported with the administration of capreomycin.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      bleeding
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      injection site reaction
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
    Headline
    fever, maculopapular rash, urticaria
    General Information
    Patients may experience hypersensitivity reactions while receiving capreomycin therapy. Hypersensitivity reactions have occurred in patients receiving concurrent therapy with capreomycin and other antituberculosis medications. Hypersensitivity reactions may manifest as urticaria or maculopapular rash. Febrile reactions (fever) have been reported to occur in association with these dermatologic complications.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      maculopapular rash
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To

Description
  Text
  NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
 
Capreomycin is a parenteral polypeptide antibiotic derived from cultures of Streptomyces capreolus. Capreomycin exhibits bactericidal activity, though the exact mechanism of action is not fully understood. Due to route of administration and side effect profile, capreomycin is reserved as a second line agent in treatment of pulmonary infections with susceptible strains of Mycobacterium tuberculosis. It is administered either intravenously or intramuscularly. The toxicity profile of capreomycin is similar to that seen with the aminoglycosides. Capreomycin is formulated as a disulfate salt complex of 4 microbiologically active components, the structures of which have not been fully elucidated. Capreomycin was FDA approved in June 1971.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
 
Capreomycin is a cyclic polypeptide antimycobacterial agent that demonstrates bactericidal activity against strains of Mycobacterium tuberculosis. The exact mechanism of action of capreomycin is not fully understood. It has been theorized that capreomycin interacts with the bacterial ribosome, ultimately inhibiting protein synthesis in a mechanism similar to that of aminoglycosides.
 
Mutations in the genes for ribosomal RNA have led to capreomycin resistant species of Mycobacterium tuberculosis. As a result of these mutations, cross-resistance has been observed between capreomycin, viomycin, and kanamycin. Cross-resistance between capreomycin and neomycin has also been reported, though to a varying degree. No cross-resistance has been identified between capreomycin and isoniazid, streptomycin, cycloserine, aminosalicylic acid, ethionamide, or ethambutol.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Oral administration of capreomycin is not feasible due to insignificant absorption from the gastrointestinal tract.
    Name
    Intravenous Route
    Description
    In 6 healthy volunteers, capreomycin was administered by intravenous and intramuscular route. The area under the serum concentration versus time curve was similar for the two routes; however, peak concentrations were roughly 30% higher after IV infusion administration.
    Name
    Intramuscular Route
    Description
    Mean peak serum concentrations are 28—32 mcg/mL (range, 20—47 mcg/mL) and are generally achieved 1—2 hours after intramuscular administration in patients with normal renal function. No significant accumulation was seen in patients with normal renal function after 30 days of consecutive 1 g doses. Serum concentration at 24 hours post-dose appears to be low, with an average concentration of 0.95 mcg/mL noted in a small pharmacokinetic study (n = 10).
  Special Populations
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    In patients with impaired renal function, the serum elimination half-life is prolonged and can range from 8.8 to 55 hours, depending on the degree of renal impairment.
  Text
  NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
 
Capreomycin is administered intravenously or intramuscularly. Based on a small pharmacokinetic study (n = 7), the mean volume of distribution is approximately 0.4 L/kg +/- 0.9 L/kg in patients with normal renal function. Metabolism is negligible. Approximately 52% of capreomycin is excreted unchanged in the urine within 12 hours of administration. The serum half-life inversely relates to renal function as measured by creatinine clearance. For patients with normal renal function, serum half-life is approximately 5.2 to 6.8 hours.

Administration
  General Information
  NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
 
For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
 
Directly observed therapy (DOT) is recommended for all children as well as adolescents and adults with HIV and any regimen consisting of intermittent therapy.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Intravenous Administration
      Description
      Reconstitution
Reconstitute 1 g with 2 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection or Sterile Water for Injection and shake well.
For doses less than 1 g, alternate dilutions may be used depending on the desired dose:
2.15 mL diluent added to 1 g (10 mL) vial provides 2.85 mL capreomycin solution (concentration 370 mg/mL)
2.63 mL diluent added to 1 g (10 mL) vial provides 3.33 mL capreomycin solution (concentration 315 mg/mL)
3.3 mL diluent added to 1 g (10 mL) vial provides 4 mL capreomycin solution (concentration 260 mg/mL)
4.3 mL diluent added to 1 g (10 mL) vial provides 5 mL capreomycin solution (concentration 210 mg/mL)
Allow 2 to 3 minutes for complete dissolution.
Storage: After reconstitution, all solutions of capreomycin may be stored for up to 24 hours under refrigeration.
 
Dilution
Dilute the desired dosage with 100 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection.
Storage: After reconstitution, all solutions of capreomycin may be stored for up to 24 hours under refrigeration.
 
Intermittent IV infusion
Infuse IV over 60 minutes.
      Name
      Intramuscular Administration
      Description
      Reconstitution
Reconstitute 1 g with 2 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection or Sterile Water for Injection and shake well.
For doses less than 1 g, alternate dilutions may be used depending on the desired dose:
2.15 mL diluent added to 1 g (10 mL) vial provides 2.85 mL capreomycin solution (concentration 370 mg/mL)
2.63 mL diluent added to 1 g (10 mL) vial provides 3.33 mL capreomycin solution (concentration 315 mg/mL)
3.3 mL diluent added to 1 g (10 mL) vial provides 4 mL capreomycin solution (concentration 260 mg/mL)
4.3 mL diluent added to 1 g (10 mL) vial provides 5 mL capreomycin solution (concentration 210 mg/mL)
Allow 2 to 3 minutes for complete dissolution.
Storage: After reconstitution, all solutions of capreomycin may be stored for up to 24 hours under refrigeration.
 
Intermittent IM injection
Inject deeply into a large muscle mass.
Avoid superficial intramuscular injection as it may be associated with increased pain and the development of sterile abscesses.
    Name
    Injectable Administration
    Description
    Visually inspect parenteral products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.
Over time, the solution may darken and develop a pale straw color, but this is not associated with loss of potency or the development of toxicity.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    1 g/day (20 mg/kg/day) or 5 days/week IV/IM or 25 mg/kg/dose IV/IM 3 days/week.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    1 g/day (20 mg/kg/day) or 5 days/week IV/IM or 25 mg/kg/dose IV/IM 3 days/week.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established; however, 30 mg/kg/day (Max: 1 g/day), 5 days/week, or twice weekly IV/IM has been used off-label.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established; however, 30 mg/kg/day (Max: 1 g/day), 5 days/week, or twice weekly IV/IM has been used off-label.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established; however, 30 mg/kg/day, 5 days/week, or twice weekly IV/IM has been used off-label.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established; however, 30 mg/kg/day IV/IM has been used off-label.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
  Renal Impairment
  Adults (FDA-approved labeling)
NOTE: Dosages designed to achieve mean steady-state capreomycin concentration of 10 mcg/mL.
CrCl 80 mL/minute or more: No dosage adjustment needed.
CrCl 60 to 79 mL/minute: 8.16 mg/kg IV or IM every 24 hours.
CrCl 50 to 59 mL/minute: 7.01 mg/kg IV or IM every 24 hours or 14 mg/kg IV or IM every 48 hours.
CrCl 40 to 49 mL/minute: 5.87 mg/kg IV or IM every 24 hours or 11.7 mg/kg IV or IM every 48 hours.
CrCl 30 to 39 mL/minute: 4.72 mg/kg IV or IM every 24 hours, 9.45 mg/kg IV or IM every 48 hours, or 14.2 mg/kg IV or IM every 72 hours.
CrCl 20 to 29 mL/minute: 3.58 mg/kg IV or IM every 24 hours, 7.16 mg/kg IV or IM every 48 hours, or 10.7 mg/kg IV or IM every 72 hours.
CrCl 10 to 19 mL/minute: 2.43 mg/kg IV or IM every 24 hours, 4.87 mg/kg IV or IM every 48 hours, or 7.3 mg/kg IV or IM every 72 hours.
CrCl less than 10 mL/minute: 1.29 mg/kg IV or IM every 24 hours, 2.58 mg/kg IV or IM every 48 hours, or 3.87 mg/kg IV or IM every 72 hours.
 
Adults (guidelines)†
May adjust dosage based on serum concentrations with a target peak of 35 to 45 mcg/mL and trough less than 4 mcg/mL.
CrCl 30 mL/minute or more: No dose adjustment needed.
CrCl less than 30 mL/min: 12 to 15 mg/kg IV or IM administered 3 days/week or twice weekly.
 
Adults (alternative)†
CrCl 10 mL/minute or more: No dosage adjustment needed.
CrCl less than 10 mL/minute: Extend the interval to every 48 hours.
 
Intermittent hemodialysis
12 to 15 mg/kg IV or IM administered 3 days/week or twice weekly. May adjust dosage based on serum concentrations with a target peak of 35 to 45 mcg/mL and trough less than 4 mcg/mL. Administer dose after hemodialysis on the day of dialysis.
 
Peritoneal dialysis†
No dosage adjustment needed.
 
Continuous renal replacement therapy (CRRT)†
NOTE: Various CRRT modalities include continuous venovenous hemofiltration (CVVH), continuous venovenous hemodialysis (CVVHD), continuous venovenous hemodiafiltration (CVVHDF), continuous venovenous high-flux hemodialysis (CVVHFD), continuous arteriovenous hemofiltration (CAVH), continuous arteriovenous hemodialysis (CAVHD), and continuous arteriovenous hemodiafiltration (CAVHDF). Dosing should take into consideration patient-specific factors (e.g., intrinsic renal function), type of infection, the duration of renal replacement therapy, the effluent flow rate, and the replacement solution administered.
 
Adults
5 mg/kg/dose IV or IM every 24 hours.
