=== Suvorexant (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 3895)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Suvorexant is an oral dual orexin receptor antagonist (DORA) indicated for the treatment of insomnia characterized by difficulties with sleep onset and/or sleep maintenance in adults, including patients with Alzheimer's disease who have insomnia.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 20 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): abnormal dreams, dizziness, drowsiness, headache, hyperactivity, memory impairment, psychomotor impairment, anxiety, depression, suicidal ideation, cataplexy, hallucinations, myasthenia, sleep paralysis

In an Overdose: Depressed patients may experience suicidal ideation and may be more likely to intentionally overdose on medications.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Patients taking suvorexant may experience sleep paralysis (an inability to move or speak for several minutes) at the time of sleep-wake transitions or hypnagogic or hypnopompic hallucinations (vivid or disturbing perceptions). Symptoms similar to mild cataplexy have also occurred with orexin...

Brand Names
  - Belsomra

Dosage Forms
  - Belsomra 10mg Tablet
  - Belsomra 15mg Tablet
  - Belsomra 20mg Tablet
  - BELSOMRA 5mg Tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        10 mg PO once nightly as needed. May increase the dose to 20 mg/day based on clinical response and tolerability. Max: 20 mg/day.
    Heading
    For the treatment of insomnia characterized by difficulties with sleep onset and/or sleep maintenance

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    narcolepsy
    General Information
    Suvorexant is contraindicated for use in people with narcolepsy. Patients taking suvorexant may experience sleep paralysis (an inability to move or speak for several minutes) at the time of sleep-wake transitions or hypnagogic or hypnopompic hallucinations (vivid or disturbing perceptions). Symptoms similar to mild cataplexy have also occurred with orexin receptor antagonists like suvorexant and may cause periods of leg weakness that are brief, lasting only a few seconds to a few minutes. These episodes can occur at any time of day and may not be related to any identified trigger (e.g., laughter or surprise). Prescribers should discuss these possible events prior to prescribing suvorexant.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    depression, suicidal ideation
    General Information
    Worsening of depression and suicidal ideation, including completed suicides, have been reported during the use of hypnotics, primarily in people with pre-existing depression. Immediately evaluate patients with worsening depression, emergent suicidal ideation (suicidal thoughts or actions), or other new or worsening adverse behaviors during treatment with suvorexant. Because intentional overdose is more common in people with pre-existing depression, suvorexant should be prescribed in the smallest quantity consistent with good patient management to reduce the risk of overdose.
    Headline
    activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery
    General Information
    Suvorexant should only be administered immediately before going to bed. Patients should avoid driving or operating machinery or performing other activities requiring coordination and concentration after use of the medication. Next-day impairment is possible, particularly when suvorexant is taken with less than a full night of sleep, at doses higher than recommended, or when combined with CNS depressants or medications that increase systemic exposure. Alcohol has additive risks for impaired memory and postural instability and should be avoided with suvorexant. Lower doses of either suvorexant or the CNS depressant may be needed when suvorexant is coadministered with other CNS depressants. Avoid use of other hypnotic agents with suvorexant. Suvorexant may cause complex sleep-related behaviors (e.g., sleep-driving, preparing food, having sex) with no memory of the events; patients should be made aware of these risks prior to starting the medication, and treatment should be discontinued immediately if these occur. Also alert treated patients to the risk of falls and the possibility of next-day somnolence and impairment.
    Headline
    respiratory insufficiency
    General Information
    Consider the benefits of treatment against the potential for adverse respiratory effects before using suvorexant in people with compromised respiratory function (respiratory insufficiency). Hypnotics have the potential to cause respiratory depression or oxygen desaturation. Evaluation of suvorexant in small studies of patients with mild to moderate OSA or mild to moderate chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) were reassuring based on either Apnea/Hypopnea Index or oxygen saturation, respectively, but there was wide inter- and intra-subject variability in the effects. Due to study limitations and the short duration of the studies performed, clinically meaningful respiratory effects of suvorexant in patients with compromised respiratory function cannot be excluded, and the drug has not been studied in patients with severe OSA or COPD.
    Headline
    substance abuse disorder
    General Information
    Suvorexant is a controlled substance and people with a history of a substance abuse disorder who require suvorexant should be carefully monitored. In an abuse liability study of recreational polydrug users, suvorexant produced similar subjective measures of abuse liability (e.g., drug liking) as zolpidem (15 mg or 30 mg). Abuse of suvorexant is associated with an increased risk of somnolence, daytime drowsiness, impaired reaction time, and impaired driving skills. Conditions that may increase the risk for abuse include prolonged use, a history of drug or alcohol abuse, and those who use suvorexant in combination with alcohol or other abused drugs. Prolonged use of suvorexant did not demonstrate evidence of physical dependence. There were no reported withdrawal symptoms after discontinuation of suvorexant.
    Headline
    Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure
    General Information
    Suvorexant has not been studied in people with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C) or hepatic failure and is not recommended in this population. No dosage adjustment is required in patients with mild (Child-Pugh class A) or moderate (Child-Pugh class B) hepatic impairment.
    Headline
    females, obesity
    General Information
    Suvorexant exposure is higher in females and in individuals with obesity. The greatest increases in suvorexant overall exposure and peak concentration were observed in females with obesity. Consider the increased risk of suvorexant exposure-related adverse events before increasing the dose, particularly in females with obesity. Suvorexant dose adjustment is generally not necessary based on sex alone.
    Headline
    geriatric
    General Information
    There were no clinically meaningful differences in safety and efficacy between geriatric and younger adults during clinical trials of suvorexant. However, the aged adult is at a higher risk of falls due to the sedative effects of hypnotic use. The U.S. Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act (OBRA) regulates the use of sedative/hypnotic agents for residents of long-term care facilities (LTCFs); when a drug is being used to induce sleep or treat a sleep disorder, the facility should attempt periodic tapering of the medication as stated in the OBRA guidelines or provide documentation of continued medical necessity.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Available data from postmarketing reports with suvorexant use during pregnancy are insufficient to establish a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. In animal reproduction studies, oral administration of suvorexant to pregnant rats and rabbits during the period of organogenesis decreased maternal body weight and/or weight gain at doses of 30-times or more and 28-times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of 20 mg based on AUC, respectively. Suvorexant caused decreased fetal weight at doses 86-times the MRHD or more based on AUC in the rat and did not cause significant fetal toxicity at doses up to 28-times the MRHD based on AUC in the rabbit. The no observed adverse effect levels (NOAELs) for fetal toxicity are 25- and 28-times the MRHD based on AUC in the rat and rabbit, respectively. Oral administration of suvorexant to pregnant rats during pregnancy and lactation caused decreased maternal and pup body weight or weight gain at approximately 48-times the MRHD based on AUC. The NOAEL for development toxicity in the rat is 25-times the MRHD based on AUC.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use suvorexant with caution during breast-feeding. Suvorexant and the hydroxy suvorexant metabolite are present in low concentrations in breast milk. There are no data regarding the effects of suvorexant on the breastfed infant or the effects on milk production. Infants exposed to suvorexant through breast milk should be monitored for excessive sedation. A single dose milk and plasma lactation study was conducted in healthy lactating individuals (n = 12). The mean amount of suvorexant recovered in breast milk was 0.011 mg following a 20 mg maternal dose. The calculated mean daily infant dose was 0.002 mg/kg/day based on the actual infant body weight. The relative infant dose was less than 1% of the maternal dose. Approximately 82% of the amount of suvorexant excreted in breast milk was excreted by 24 hours after the single maternal dose administration. The transfer of hydroxysuvorexant into breast milk is lower than suvorexant (metabolite/parent: 0.13). Consider the developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding along with the mother's clinical need for suvorexant and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from suvorexant or the underlying maternal condition. A potential concern with suvorexant or other hypnotic use is the need for a full 7-hour sleep schedule following bedtime administration, which may present difficulty with breast-feeding schedules and a potential infant risk if the parent is co-sleeping with an infant.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Available data from postmarketing reports with suvorexant use during pregnancy are insufficient to establish a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. In animal reproduction studies, oral administration of suvorexant to pregnant rats and rabbits during the period of organogenesis decreased maternal body weight and/or weight gain at doses of 30-times or more and 28-times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of 20 mg based on AUC, respectively. Suvorexant caused decreased fetal weight at doses 86-times the MRHD or more based on AUC in the rat and did not cause significant fetal toxicity at doses up to 28-times the MRHD based on AUC in the rabbit. The no observed adverse effect levels (NOAELs) for fetal toxicity are 25- and 28-times the MRHD based on AUC in the rat and rabbit, respectively. Oral administration of suvorexant to pregnant rats during pregnancy and lactation caused decreased maternal and pup body weight or weight gain at approximately 48-times the MRHD based on AUC. The NOAEL for development toxicity in the rat is 25-times the MRHD based on AUC.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use suvorexant with caution during breast-feeding. Suvorexant and the hydroxy suvorexant metabolite are present in low concentrations in breast milk. There are no data regarding the effects of suvorexant on the breastfed infant or the effects on milk production. Infants exposed to suvorexant through breast milk should be monitored for excessive sedation. A single dose milk and plasma lactation study was conducted in healthy lactating individuals (n = 12). The mean amount of suvorexant recovered in breast milk was 0.011 mg following a 20 mg maternal dose. The calculated mean daily infant dose was 0.002 mg/kg/day based on the actual infant body weight. The relative infant dose was less than 1% of the maternal dose. Approximately 82% of the amount of suvorexant excreted in breast milk was excreted by 24 hours after the single maternal dose administration. The transfer of hydroxysuvorexant into breast milk is lower than suvorexant (metabolite/parent: 0.13). Consider the developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding along with the mother's clinical need for suvorexant and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from suvorexant or the underlying maternal condition. A potential concern with suvorexant or other hypnotic use is the need for a full 7-hour sleep schedule following bedtime administration, which may present difficulty with breast-feeding schedules and a potential infant risk if the parent is co-sleeping with an infant.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Minor) Caffeine is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant. Patients taking medications for sleep, such as suvorexant, eszopiclone, zaleplon, or zolpidem should avoid caffeine-containing medications, dietary supplements, foods, and beverages close to bedtime. Patients should be encouraged to avoid excessive total daily caffeine intake, as part of proper sleep hygiene, since caffeine intake can interfere with proper sleep.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Minor) Caffeine is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant. Patients taking medications for sleep, such as suvorexant, eszopiclone, zaleplon, or zolpidem should avoid caffeine-containing medications, dietary supplements, foods, and beverages close to bedtime. Patients should be encouraged to avoid excessive total daily caffeine intake, as part of proper sleep hygiene, since caffeine intake can interfere with proper sleep.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and sedating H1-blockers may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should generally avoid nonprescription antihistamine products that are marketed as sleep-aids concurrently with suvorexant.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Minor) Caffeine is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant. Patients taking medications for sleep, such as suvorexant, eszopiclone, zaleplon, or zolpidem should avoid caffeine-containing medications, dietary supplements, foods, and beverages close to bedtime. Patients should be encouraged to avoid excessive total daily caffeine intake, as part of proper sleep hygiene, since caffeine intake can interfere with proper sleep.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with suvorexant may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking suvorexant. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with suvorexant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. (Minor) Caffeine is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant. Patients taking medications for sleep, such as suvorexant, eszopiclone, zaleplon, or zolpidem should avoid caffeine-containing medications, dietary supplements, foods, and beverages close to bedtime. Patients should be encouraged to avoid excessive total daily caffeine intake, as part of proper sleep hygiene, since caffeine intake can interfere with proper sleep.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and sedating H1-blockers may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should generally avoid nonprescription antihistamine products that are marketed as sleep-aids concurrently with suvorexant. (Minor) Caffeine is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant. Patients taking medications for sleep, such as suvorexant, eszopiclone, zaleplon, or zolpidem should avoid caffeine-containing medications, dietary supplements, foods, and beverages close to bedtime. Patients should be encouraged to avoid excessive total daily caffeine intake, as part of proper sleep hygiene, since caffeine intake can interfere with proper sleep.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and sedating H1-blockers may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should generally avoid nonprescription antihistamine products that are marketed as sleep-aids concurrently with suvorexant.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and sedating H1-blockers may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should generally avoid nonprescription antihistamine products that are marketed as sleep-aids concurrently with suvorexant.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and sedating H1-blockers may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should generally avoid nonprescription antihistamine products that are marketed as sleep-aids concurrently with suvorexant.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and sedating H1-blockers may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should generally avoid nonprescription antihistamine products that are marketed as sleep-aids concurrently with suvorexant.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and sedating H1-blockers may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should generally avoid nonprescription antihistamine products that are marketed as sleep-aids concurrently with suvorexant.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with suvorexant may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking suvorexant. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with suvorexant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and sedating H1-blockers may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should generally avoid nonprescription antihistamine products that are marketed as sleep-aids concurrently with suvorexant.
Acetaminophen; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and sedating H1-blockers may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should generally avoid nonprescription antihistamine products that are marketed as sleep-aids concurrently with suvorexant.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with suvorexant may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking suvorexant. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with suvorexant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with suvorexant may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with suvorexant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Acetaminophen; Pamabrom; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and sedating H1-blockers may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should generally avoid nonprescription antihistamine products that are marketed as sleep-aids concurrently with suvorexant.
Adagrasib: (Major) Coadministration of suvorexant and adagrasib is not recommended due to the potential for significantly increased suvorexant exposure. Suvorexant is a CYP3A substrate and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2.8-fold.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with suvorexant may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with suvorexant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
ALPRAZolam: (Moderate) CNS depressant drugs may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with suvorexant. A reduction in dose of the CNS depressant may be needed in some cases. These agents include the benzodiazepines.
Amitriptyline: (Moderate) The use of suvorexant with other CNS depressants (e.g., tricyclic antidepressants) increases the risk of CNS depression. Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and of concomitant CNS depressants may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive effects. The use of suvorexant with other drugs to treat insomnia, such as tricyclic antidepressants used for insomnia, is not recommended.
Amobarbital: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of suvorexant if coadministration with a barbiturate is necessary. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased suvorexant exposure by 77% to 88%. Additive CNS effects, such as sedation and psychomotor impairment, are also possible. Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and of concomitant CNS depressants may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive effects. The use of suvorexant with other drugs to treat insomnia is not recommended. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should be cautioned against driving and other activities requiring complete mental alertness.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Coadministration of suvorexant and clarithromycin is not recommended due to the potential for significantly increased suvorexant exposure. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate. Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2.8-fold.
Anxiolytics; Sedatives; and Hypnotics: (Moderate) Use of suvorexant with other sedatives and hypnotics should generally be avoided due to duplication of treatments and due to the additive CNS depressant and complex sleep-related behaviors that may occur. While anxiolytic medications may be used concurrently with suvorexant, a reduction in dose of one or both of these agents may be needed.
Apalutamide: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of suvorexant if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased suvorexant exposure by 77% to 88%.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Major) A dose reduction to 5 mg of suvorexant is recommended during concurrent use with aprepitant or fosaprepitant. The suvorexant dose may be increased to 10 mg if needed for efficacy. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate. When administered as a 3-day oral regimen (125 mg/80 mg/80 mg), aprepitant is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. When administered as a single oral or single intravenous dose, the inhibitory effect of aprepitant on CYP3A4 is weak and did not result in a clinically significant increase in the AUC of a sensitive substrate.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and atypical antipsyhotics. Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and the atypical antipsychotic may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants.
Asenapine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and atypical antipsyhotics. Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and the atypical antipsychotic may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of suvorexant if coadministration with a barbiturate is necessary. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased suvorexant exposure by 77% to 88%. Additive CNS effects, such as sedation and psychomotor impairment, are also possible. Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and of concomitant CNS depressants may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive effects. The use of suvorexant with other drugs to treat insomnia is not recommended. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should be cautioned against driving and other activities requiring complete mental alertness. (Minor) Caffeine is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant. Patients taking medications for sleep, such as suvorexant, eszopiclone, zaleplon, or zolpidem should avoid caffeine-containing medications, dietary supplements, foods, and beverages close to bedtime. Patients should be encouraged to avoid excessive total daily caffeine intake, as part of proper sleep hygiene, since caffeine intake can interfere with proper sleep.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Minor) Caffeine is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant. Patients taking medications for sleep, such as suvorexant, eszopiclone, zaleplon, or zolpidem should avoid caffeine-containing medications, dietary supplements, foods, and beverages close to bedtime. Patients should be encouraged to avoid excessive total daily caffeine intake, as part of proper sleep hygiene, since caffeine intake can interfere with proper sleep.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Minor) Caffeine is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant. Patients taking medications for sleep, such as suvorexant, eszopiclone, zaleplon, or zolpidem should avoid caffeine-containing medications, dietary supplements, foods, and beverages close to bedtime. Patients should be encouraged to avoid excessive total daily caffeine intake, as part of proper sleep hygiene, since caffeine intake can interfere with proper sleep.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with suvorexant may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking suvorexant. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with suvorexant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with suvorexant may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with suvorexant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Atazanavir: (Major) A dose reduction to 5 mg of suvorexant is recommended during concurrent use with atazanavir. The suvorexant dose may be increased to 10 mg if needed for efficacy. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate and atazanavir is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2-fold.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) A dose reduction to 5 mg of suvorexant is recommended during concurrent use with atazanavir. The suvorexant dose may be increased to 10 mg if needed for efficacy. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate and atazanavir is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2-fold. (Major) Coadministration of suvorexant and cobicistat is not recommended due to the potential for significantly increased suvorexant exposure. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2.8-fold.
atypical antipsychotic: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and atypical antipsyhotics. Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and the atypical antipsychotic may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants.
Avacopan: (Major) A dose reduction to 5 mg of suvorexant is recommended during concurrent use with avacopan. The suvorexant dose may be increased to 10 mg if needed for efficacy. Suvorexant is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2-fold.
Barbiturates: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of suvorexant if coadministration with a barbiturate is necessary. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased suvorexant exposure by 77% to 88%. Additive CNS effects, such as sedation and psychomotor impairment, are also possible. Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and of concomitant CNS depressants may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive effects. The use of suvorexant with other drugs to treat insomnia is not recommended. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should be cautioned against driving and other activities requiring complete mental alertness.
Belladonna; Opium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with suvorexant may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with suvorexant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with suvorexant may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with suvorexant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Benzodiazepines: (Moderate) CNS depressant drugs may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with suvorexant. A reduction in dose of the CNS depressant may be needed in some cases. These agents include the benzodiazepines.
Berotralstat: (Major) A dose reduction to 5 mg of suvorexant is recommended during concurrent use with berotralstat. The suvorexant dose may be increased to 10 mg if needed for efficacy. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate and berotralstat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2-fold.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Major) A dose reduction to 5 mg of suvorexant is recommended during concurrent use with lenacapavir. The suvorexant dose may be increased to 10 mg if needed for efficacy. Suvorexant is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2-fold.
Brexpiprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and atypical antipsyhotics. Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and the atypical antipsychotic may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants.
Brompheniramine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and sedating H1-blockers may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should generally avoid nonprescription antihistamine products that are marketed as sleep-aids concurrently with suvorexant.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and sedating H1-blockers may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should generally avoid nonprescription antihistamine products that are marketed as sleep-aids concurrently with suvorexant.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and sedating H1-blockers may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should generally avoid nonprescription antihistamine products that are marketed as sleep-aids concurrently with suvorexant.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and sedating H1-blockers may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should generally avoid nonprescription antihistamine products that are marketed as sleep-aids concurrently with suvorexant.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and sedating H1-blockers may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should generally avoid nonprescription antihistamine products that are marketed as sleep-aids concurrently with suvorexant.
Buprenorphine: (Moderate) If concurrent use of suvorexant and buprenorphine is necessary, consider a dose reduction of one or both drugs because of the potential for additive pharmacological effects. Sedation, coma, or respiratory depression may occur during co-administration of buprenorphine and other CNS depressants. Prior to concurrent use of buprenorphine in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Evaluate the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. It is recommended that the injectable buprenorphine dose be halved for patients who receive other drugs with CNS depressant effects; for the buprenorphine transdermal patch, start with the 5 mcg/hour patch. Monitor patients for sedation or respiratory depression.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Moderate) If concurrent use of suvorexant and buprenorphine is necessary, consider a dose reduction of one or both drugs because of the potential for additive pharmacological effects. Sedation, coma, or respiratory depression may occur during co-administration of buprenorphine and other CNS depressants. Prior to concurrent use of buprenorphine in patients taking a CNS depressant, assess the level of tolerance to CNS depression that has developed, the duration of use, and the patient's overall response to treatment. Evaluate the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs. It is recommended that the injectable buprenorphine dose be halved for patients who receive other drugs with CNS depressant effects; for the buprenorphine transdermal patch, start with the 5 mcg/hour patch. Monitor patients for sedation or respiratory depression.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of suvorexant if coadministration with a barbiturate is necessary. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased suvorexant exposure by 77% to 88%. Additive CNS effects, such as sedation and psychomotor impairment, are also possible. Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and of concomitant CNS depressants may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive effects. The use of suvorexant with other drugs to treat insomnia is not recommended. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should be cautioned against driving and other activities requiring complete mental alertness.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of suvorexant if coadministration with a barbiturate is necessary. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased suvorexant exposure by 77% to 88%. Additive CNS effects, such as sedation and psychomotor impairment, are also possible. Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and of concomitant CNS depressants may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive effects. The use of suvorexant with other drugs to treat insomnia is not recommended. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should be cautioned against driving and other activities requiring complete mental alertness. (Minor) Caffeine is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant. Patients taking medications for sleep, such as suvorexant, eszopiclone, zaleplon, or zolpidem should avoid caffeine-containing medications, dietary supplements, foods, and beverages close to bedtime. Patients should be encouraged to avoid excessive total daily caffeine intake, as part of proper sleep hygiene, since caffeine intake can interfere with proper sleep.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with suvorexant may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking suvorexant. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with suvorexant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of suvorexant if coadministration with a barbiturate is necessary. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased suvorexant exposure by 77% to 88%. Additive CNS effects, such as sedation and psychomotor impairment, are also possible. Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and of concomitant CNS depressants may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive effects. The use of suvorexant with other drugs to treat insomnia is not recommended. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should be cautioned against driving and other activities requiring complete mental alertness. (Minor) Caffeine is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant. Patients taking medications for sleep, such as suvorexant, eszopiclone, zaleplon, or zolpidem should avoid caffeine-containing medications, dietary supplements, foods, and beverages close to bedtime. Patients should be encouraged to avoid excessive total daily caffeine intake, as part of proper sleep hygiene, since caffeine intake can interfere with proper sleep.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with suvorexant may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking suvorexant. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with suvorexant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of suvorexant if coadministration with a barbiturate is necessary. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased suvorexant exposure by 77% to 88%. Additive CNS effects, such as sedation and psychomotor impairment, are also possible. Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and of concomitant CNS depressants may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive effects. The use of suvorexant with other drugs to treat insomnia is not recommended. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should be cautioned against driving and other activities requiring complete mental alertness. (Minor) Caffeine is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant. Patients taking medications for sleep, such as suvorexant, eszopiclone, zaleplon, or zolpidem should avoid caffeine-containing medications, dietary supplements, foods, and beverages close to bedtime. Patients should be encouraged to avoid excessive total daily caffeine intake, as part of proper sleep hygiene, since caffeine intake can interfere with proper sleep.
Caffeine: (Minor) Caffeine is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant. Patients taking medications for sleep, such as suvorexant, eszopiclone, zaleplon, or zolpidem should avoid caffeine-containing medications, dietary supplements, foods, and beverages close to bedtime. Patients should be encouraged to avoid excessive total daily caffeine intake, as part of proper sleep hygiene, since caffeine intake can interfere with proper sleep.
Caffeine; Sodium Benzoate: (Minor) Caffeine is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant. Patients taking medications for sleep, such as suvorexant, eszopiclone, zaleplon, or zolpidem should avoid caffeine-containing medications, dietary supplements, foods, and beverages close to bedtime. Patients should be encouraged to avoid excessive total daily caffeine intake, as part of proper sleep hygiene, since caffeine intake can interfere with proper sleep.
Cannabidiol: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of cannabidiol and suvorexant. CNS depressants can potentiate the effects of cannabidiol.
carBAMazepine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of suvorexant if coadministration with carbamazepine is necessary. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate and carbamazepine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased suvorexant exposure by 77% to 88%.
Carbidopa; Levodopa; Entacapone: (Moderate) CNS depressant drugs may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with suvorexant. A reduction in dose of the CNS depressant may be needed in some cases.
Carbinoxamine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and sedating H1-blockers may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should generally avoid nonprescription antihistamine products that are marketed as sleep-aids concurrently with suvorexant.
Cariprazine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and atypical antipsyhotics. Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and the atypical antipsychotic may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with suvorexant may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with suvorexant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Cenobamate: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of cenobamate and suvorexant. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Ceritinib: (Major) Coadministration of suvorexant and ceritinib is not recommended due to the potential for significantly increased suvorexant exposure. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate and ceritinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2.8-fold.
Cetirizine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with suvorexant should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with suvorexant should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Chlophedianol; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and sedating H1-blockers may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should generally avoid nonprescription antihistamine products that are marketed as sleep-aids concurrently with suvorexant.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and sedating H1-blockers may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should generally avoid nonprescription antihistamine products that are marketed as sleep-aids concurrently with suvorexant.
Chloramphenicol: (Major) Coadministration of suvorexant and chloramphenicol is not recommended due to the potential for significantly increased suvorexant exposure. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate. Chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2.8-fold.
Chlorcyclizine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and sedating H1-blockers may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should generally avoid nonprescription antihistamine products that are marketed as sleep-aids concurrently with suvorexant.
chlordiazePOXIDE: (Moderate) CNS depressant drugs may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with suvorexant. A reduction in dose of the CNS depressant may be needed in some cases. These agents include the benzodiazepines.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) CNS depressant drugs may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with suvorexant. A reduction in dose of the CNS depressant may be needed in some cases. These agents include the benzodiazepines. (Moderate) The use of suvorexant with other CNS depressants (e.g., tricyclic antidepressants) increases the risk of CNS depression. Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and of concomitant CNS depressants may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive effects. The use of suvorexant with other drugs to treat insomnia, such as tricyclic antidepressants used for insomnia, is not recommended.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Moderate) CNS depressant drugs may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with suvorexant. A reduction in dose of the CNS depressant may be needed in some cases. These agents include the benzodiazepines.
Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and sedating H1-blockers may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should generally avoid nonprescription antihistamine products that are marketed as sleep-aids concurrently with suvorexant.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with suvorexant may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking suvorexant. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with suvorexant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and sedating H1-blockers may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should generally avoid nonprescription antihistamine products that are marketed as sleep-aids concurrently with suvorexant.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and sedating H1-blockers may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should generally avoid nonprescription antihistamine products that are marketed as sleep-aids concurrently with suvorexant.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and sedating H1-blockers may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should generally avoid nonprescription antihistamine products that are marketed as sleep-aids concurrently with suvorexant.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and sedating H1-blockers may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should generally avoid nonprescription antihistamine products that are marketed as sleep-aids concurrently with suvorexant.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with suvorexant may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking suvorexant. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with suvorexant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and sedating H1-blockers may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should generally avoid nonprescription antihistamine products that are marketed as sleep-aids concurrently with suvorexant.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and sedating H1-blockers may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should generally avoid nonprescription antihistamine products that are marketed as sleep-aids concurrently with suvorexant.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and sedating H1-blockers may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should generally avoid nonprescription antihistamine products that are marketed as sleep-aids concurrently with suvorexant.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and sedating H1-blockers may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should generally avoid nonprescription antihistamine products that are marketed as sleep-aids concurrently with suvorexant.
Ciprofloxacin: (Major) A dose reduction to 5 mg of suvorexant is recommended during concurrent use with ciprofloxacin. The suvorexant dose may be increased to 10 mg if needed for efficacy. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate and ciprofloxacin is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2-fold.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Coadministration of suvorexant and clarithromycin is not recommended due to the potential for significantly increased suvorexant exposure. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate. Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2.8-fold.
Clemastine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and sedating H1-blockers may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should generally avoid nonprescription antihistamine products that are marketed as sleep-aids concurrently with suvorexant.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) The use of suvorexant with other CNS depressants (e.g., tricyclic antidepressants) increases the risk of CNS depression. Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and of concomitant CNS depressants may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive effects. The use of suvorexant with other drugs to treat insomnia, such as tricyclic antidepressants used for insomnia, is not recommended.
clonazePAM: (Moderate) CNS depressant drugs may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with suvorexant. A reduction in dose of the CNS depressant may be needed in some cases. These agents include the benzodiazepines.
Clorazepate: (Moderate) CNS depressant drugs may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with suvorexant. A reduction in dose of the CNS depressant may be needed in some cases. These agents include the benzodiazepines.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and atypical antipsyhotics. Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and the atypical antipsychotic may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants.
Cobicistat: (Major) Coadministration of suvorexant and cobicistat is not recommended due to the potential for significantly increased suvorexant exposure. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2.8-fold.
Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with suvorexant may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking suvorexant. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with suvorexant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with suvorexant may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking suvorexant. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with suvorexant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and sedating H1-blockers may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should generally avoid nonprescription antihistamine products that are marketed as sleep-aids concurrently with suvorexant.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with suvorexant may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking suvorexant. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with suvorexant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with suvorexant may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking suvorexant. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with suvorexant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with suvorexant may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking suvorexant. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with suvorexant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with suvorexant may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking suvorexant. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with suvorexant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Conivaptan: (Major) A dose reduction to 5 mg of suvorexant is recommended during concurrent use with conivaptan. The suvorexant dose may be increased to 10 mg if needed for efficacy. Suvorexant is a CYP3A substrate and conivaptan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the suvorexant overall exposure by 2-fold.
Crizotinib: (Major) A dose reduction to 5 mg of suvorexant is recommended during concurrent use with crizotinib. The suvorexant dose may be increased to 10 mg if needed for efficacy. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate and crizotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2-fold.
Cyclobenzaprine: (Moderate) Cyclobenzaprine may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants, such as anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics. Combination therapy can cause additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the patient's ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary.
cycloSPORINE: (Major) A dose reduction to 5 mg of suvorexant is recommended during concurrent use with cyclosporine. The suvorexant dose may be increased to 10 mg if needed for efficacy. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate and cyclosporine is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2-fold.
Cyproheptadine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and sedating H1-blockers may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should generally avoid nonprescription antihistamine products that are marketed as sleep-aids concurrently with suvorexant.
Darunavir: (Major) Coadministration of suvorexant and darunavir is not recommended due to the potential for significantly increased suvorexant exposure. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate. Darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2.8-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Coadministration of suvorexant and cobicistat is not recommended due to the potential for significantly increased suvorexant exposure. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2.8-fold. (Major) Coadministration of suvorexant and darunavir is not recommended due to the potential for significantly increased suvorexant exposure. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate. Darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2.8-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Coadministration of suvorexant and cobicistat is not recommended due to the potential for significantly increased suvorexant exposure. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2.8-fold. (Major) Coadministration of suvorexant and darunavir is not recommended due to the potential for significantly increased suvorexant exposure. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate. Darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2.8-fold.
Desipramine: (Moderate) The use of suvorexant with other CNS depressants (e.g., tricyclic antidepressants) increases the risk of CNS depression. Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and of concomitant CNS depressants may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive effects. The use of suvorexant with other drugs to treat insomnia, such as tricyclic antidepressants used for insomnia, is not recommended.
Deutetrabenazine: (Moderate) Advise patients that concurrent use of deutetrabenazine and drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as suvorexant, may have additive effects and worsen drowsiness or sedation.
Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and sedating H1-blockers may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should generally avoid nonprescription antihistamine products that are marketed as sleep-aids concurrently with suvorexant.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and sedating H1-blockers may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should generally avoid nonprescription antihistamine products that are marketed as sleep-aids concurrently with suvorexant.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and sedating H1-blockers may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should generally avoid nonprescription antihistamine products that are marketed as sleep-aids concurrently with suvorexant.
Dexchlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and sedating H1-blockers may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should generally avoid nonprescription antihistamine products that are marketed as sleep-aids concurrently with suvorexant.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and sedating H1-blockers may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should generally avoid nonprescription antihistamine products that are marketed as sleep-aids concurrently with suvorexant.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and sedating H1-blockers may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should generally avoid nonprescription antihistamine products that are marketed as sleep-aids concurrently with suvorexant.
diazePAM: (Moderate) CNS depressant drugs may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with suvorexant. A reduction in dose of the CNS depressant may be needed in some cases. These agents include the benzodiazepines.
Difelikefalin: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Digoxin: (Major) Digoxin concentrations should be monitored during use with suvorexant. In one evaluation, concomitant administration of digoxin and suvorexant slightly increased digoxin levels presumably due to inhibition of intestinal P-glycoprotein (P-gp) by suvorexant.
dilTIAZem: (Major) A dose reduction to 5 mg of suvorexant is recommended during concurrent use with diltiazem. The suvorexant dose may be increased to 10 mg if needed for efficacy. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate and diltiazem is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with diltiazem increased the suvorexant AUC by 2-fold.
dimenhyDRINATE: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and sedating H1-blockers may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should generally avoid nonprescription antihistamine products that are marketed as sleep-aids concurrently with suvorexant.
diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and sedating H1-blockers may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should generally avoid nonprescription antihistamine products that are marketed as sleep-aids concurrently with suvorexant.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and sedating H1-blockers may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should generally avoid nonprescription antihistamine products that are marketed as sleep-aids concurrently with suvorexant.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and sedating H1-blockers may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should generally avoid nonprescription antihistamine products that are marketed as sleep-aids concurrently with suvorexant.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and sedating H1-blockers may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should generally avoid nonprescription antihistamine products that are marketed as sleep-aids concurrently with suvorexant.
Doxepin: (Moderate) The use of suvorexant with other CNS depressants (e.g., tricyclic antidepressants) increases the risk of CNS depression. Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and of concomitant CNS depressants may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive effects. The use of suvorexant with other drugs to treat insomnia, such as tricyclic antidepressants used for insomnia, is not recommended.
Doxylamine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and sedating H1-blockers may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should generally avoid nonprescription antihistamine products that are marketed as sleep-aids concurrently with suvorexant.
Doxylamine; Pyridoxine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and sedating H1-blockers may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should generally avoid nonprescription antihistamine products that are marketed as sleep-aids concurrently with suvorexant.
droNABinol: (Moderate) CNS depressant drugs may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with suvorexant. A reduction in dose of the CNS depressant may be needed in some cases.
Dronedarone: (Major) Suvorexant is primarily metabolized by CYP3A, and the manufacturer recommends a dose reduction to 5 mg of suvorexant during concurrent use with moderate CYP3A inhibitors and a maximum recommended dose of 10 mg/day. Dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor, and increased plasma concentrations of suvorexant are possible during concurrent use of these drugs.
droPERidol: (Moderate) CNS depressant drugs may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with suvorexant. A reduction in dose of the CNS depressant may be needed in some cases.
Elbasvir; Grazoprevir: (Moderate) Administering suvorexant with elbasvir; grazoprevir may result in elevated suvorexant plasma concentrations. Suvorexant is a substrate of CYP3A; grazoprevir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. If these drugs are used together, closely monitor for signs of adverse events.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Coadministration of suvorexant and cobicistat is not recommended due to the potential for significantly increased suvorexant exposure. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2.8-fold.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Coadministration of suvorexant and cobicistat is not recommended due to the potential for significantly increased suvorexant exposure. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2.8-fold.
Encorafenib: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of suvorexant if coadministration with encorafenib is necessary. Suvorexant is a CYP3A substrate and encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased suvorexant exposure by 77% to 88%.
Ensitrelvir: (Major) Coadministration of suvorexant and ensitrelvir is not recommended due to the potential for significantly increased suvorexant exposure. Suvorexant is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2.8-fold.
Entacapone: (Moderate) CNS depressant drugs may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with suvorexant. A reduction in dose of the CNS depressant may be needed in some cases.
Enzalutamide: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of suvorexant if coadministration with enzalutamide is necessary. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased suvorexant exposure by 77% to 88%.
Ergotamine; Caffeine: (Minor) Caffeine is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant. Patients taking medications for sleep, such as suvorexant, eszopiclone, zaleplon, or zolpidem should avoid caffeine-containing medications, dietary supplements, foods, and beverages close to bedtime. Patients should be encouraged to avoid excessive total daily caffeine intake, as part of proper sleep hygiene, since caffeine intake can interfere with proper sleep.
Erythromycin: (Major) A dose reduction to 5 mg of suvorexant is recommended during concurrent use with erythromycin. The suvorexant dose may be increased to 10 mg if needed for efficacy. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate and erythromycin is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2-fold.
Esketamine: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and suvorexant for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Estazolam: (Moderate) CNS depressant drugs may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with suvorexant. A reduction in dose of the CNS depressant may be needed in some cases. These agents include the benzodiazepines.
Eszopiclone: (Moderate) Use of suvorexant with other sedatives and hypnotics should generally be avoided due to duplication of treatments and due to the additive CNS depressant and complex sleep-related behaviors that may occur. While anxiolytic medications may be used concurrently with suvorexant, a reduction in dose of one or both of these agents may be needed.
Ethanol: (Major) Advise patients to avoid alcohol consumption while taking CNS depressants. Alcohol consumption may result in additive CNS depression.
Etomidate: (Moderate) CNS depressant drugs, including general anesthetics, may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with suvorexant. A reduction in dose of either suvorexant or the CNS depressant may be needed in some cases.
Fedratinib: (Major) A dose reduction to 5 mg of suvorexant is recommended during concurrent use with fedratinib. The suvorexant dose may be increased to 10 mg if needed for efficacy. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate and fedratinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2-fold.
Fenfluramine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of fenfluramine and suvorexant. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with suvorexant may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with suvorexant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Fluconazole: (Major) A dose reduction to 5 mg of suvorexant is recommended during concurrent use with fluconazole. The suvorexant dose may be increased to 10 mg if needed for efficacy. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate and fluconazole is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2-fold.
Flurazepam: (Moderate) CNS depressant drugs may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with suvorexant. A reduction in dose of the CNS depressant may be needed in some cases. These agents include the benzodiazepines.
Food: (Major) Advise patients to avoid cannabis use while taking CNS depressants due to the risk for additive CNS depression and potential for other cognitive adverse reactions.
Fosamprenavir: (Major) A dose reduction to 5 mg of suvorexant is recommended during concurrent use with fosamprenavir. The suvorexant dose may be increased to 10 mg if needed for efficacy. Suvorexant is a CYP3A substrate and fosamprenavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2-fold.
Fosphenytoin: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of suvorexant if coadministration with fosphenytoin is necessary. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate and fosphenytoin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased suvorexant exposure by 77% to 88%.
Gabapentin: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and gabapentin. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
General anesthetics: (Moderate) CNS depressant drugs, including general anesthetics, may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with suvorexant. A reduction in dose of either suvorexant or the CNS depressant may be needed in some cases.
Grapefruit juice: (Major) Advise patients to avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice during suvorexant treatment due to the risk for increased suvorexant exposure and adverse reactions. Suvorexant is a CYP3A substrate and grapefruit juice is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with suvorexant may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking suvorexant. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with suvorexant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with suvorexant may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking suvorexant. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with suvorexant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with suvorexant may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking suvorexant. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with suvorexant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
HYDROmorphone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with suvorexant may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with suvorexant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
hydrOXYzine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and sedating H1-blockers may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should generally avoid nonprescription antihistamine products that are marketed as sleep-aids concurrently with suvorexant.
Idelalisib: (Major) Coadministration of suvorexant and idelalisib is not recommended due to the potential for significantly increased suvorexant exposure. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate. Idelalisib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2.8-fold.
Iloperidone: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and atypical antipsyhotics. Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and the atypical antipsychotic may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants.
Imatinib: (Major) A dose reduction to 5 mg of suvorexant is recommended during concurrent use with imatinib. The suvorexant dose may be increased to 10 mg if needed for efficacy. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate and imatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2-fold.
Imipramine: (Moderate) The use of suvorexant with other CNS depressants (e.g., tricyclic antidepressants) increases the risk of CNS depression. Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and of concomitant CNS depressants may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive effects. The use of suvorexant with other drugs to treat insomnia, such as tricyclic antidepressants used for insomnia, is not recommended.
Isavuconazonium: (Major) A dose reduction to 5 mg of suvorexant is recommended during concurrent use with isavuconazonium. The suvorexant dose may be increased to 10 mg if needed for efficacy. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate. Isavuconazole, the active moiety of isavuconazonium, is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A4.
Isocarboxazid: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). Dosage adjustments may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants.
Isoflurane: (Moderate) CNS depressant drugs, including general anesthetics, may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with suvorexant. A reduction in dose of either suvorexant or the CNS depressant may be needed in some cases.
Itraconazole: (Major) Coadministration of suvorexant and itraconazole is not recommended due to the potential for significantly increased suvorexant exposure. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate. Itraconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2.8-fold.
Ketamine: (Moderate) CNS depressant drugs, including general anesthetics, may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with suvorexant. A reduction in dose of either suvorexant or the CNS depressant may be needed in some cases.
Ketoconazole: (Major) Coadministration of suvorexant and ketoconazole is not recommended due to the potential for significantly increased suvorexant exposure. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate. Ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased the suvorexant AUC by 2.8-fold.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Coadministration of suvorexant and clarithromycin is not recommended due to the potential for significantly increased suvorexant exposure. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate. Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2.8-fold.
Lasmiditan: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lasmiditan and suvorexant. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Lefamulin: (Major) A dose reduction to 5 mg of suvorexant is recommended during concurrent use with oral lefamulin. The suvorexant dose may be increased to 10 mg if needed for efficacy. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate and oral lefamulin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor; an interaction is not expected with intravenous lefamulin. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2-fold.
Lemborexant: (Major) Because of pharmacologic similarities as orexin receptor antagonists for insomnia, lemborexant and suvorexant should not be used together. The actions would be expected to be duplicative, and might result in additive side effects, such as somnolence, unusual behaviors or moods, next-day impairment, hallucinations, or adverse sleep-related behaviors.
Lenacapavir: (Major) A dose reduction to 5 mg of suvorexant is recommended during concurrent use with lenacapavir. The suvorexant dose may be increased to 10 mg if needed for efficacy. Suvorexant is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2-fold.
Letermovir: (Major) The recommended dose of suvorexant is 5 mg and may be increased to a maximum of 10 mg if necessary for efficacy when coadministered with letermovir. Concurrent use is not recommended in patients also receiving cyclosporine, because the magnitude of the interaction may be amplified. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate. A clinically relevant increase in the plasma concentration of suvorexant may occur if given with letermovir. Letermovir is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; however, when given with cyclosporine, the combined effect on CYP3A4 substrates is similar to a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Levocetirizine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with suvorexant should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Levoketoconazole: (Major) Coadministration of suvorexant and ketoconazole is not recommended due to the potential for significantly increased suvorexant exposure. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate. Ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased the suvorexant AUC by 2.8-fold.
Levorphanol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with suvorexant may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with suvorexant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Lofexidine: (Moderate) Monitor for additive sedation during coadministration of lofexidine and suvorexant. Lofexidine can potentiate the effects of CNS depressants. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or performing any other tasks requiring mental alertness until the effects of the combination are known.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of suvorexant and lonafarnib due to the potential for significantly increased suvorexant exposure. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate and lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2.8-fold.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Coadministration of suvorexant and ritonavir is not recommended due to the potential for significantly increased suvorexant exposure. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate. Ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2.8-fold.
LORazepam: (Moderate) CNS depressant drugs may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with suvorexant. A reduction in dose of the CNS depressant may be needed in some cases. These agents include the benzodiazepines.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of suvorexant if coadministration with lumacaftor; ivacaftor is necessary. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate and lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased suvorexant exposure by 77% to 88%.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of suvorexant if coadministration with lumacaftor; ivacaftor is necessary. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate and lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased suvorexant exposure by 77% to 88%.
Lumateperone: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and atypical antipsyhotics. Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and the atypical antipsychotic may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants.
Lurasidone: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and atypical antipsyhotics. Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and the atypical antipsychotic may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants.
Meclizine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and sedating H1-blockers may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should generally avoid nonprescription antihistamine products that are marketed as sleep-aids concurrently with suvorexant.
Melatonin: (Major) Pharmacodynamic interactions often occur when sedative agents are used together. Until more data are available, avoid combining melatonin with other hypnotics, including suvorexant. In a clinical trial, there was clear evidence for a transitory pharmacodynamic interaction between melatonin and another hypnotic agent 1 hour following co-dosing. Concomitant administration resulted in increased impairment of attention, memory and coordination compared to the hypnotic agent alone. Use of more than 1 agent for hypnotic purposes may increase the risk for over-sedation, CNS effects, or sleep-related behaviors. Be alert for unusual changes in moods or behaviors. Patients reporting unusual sleep-related behaviors should likely discontinue melatonin use.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with suvorexant may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with suvorexant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Meprobamate: (Moderate) Use of suvorexant with other sedatives and hypnotics should generally be avoided due to duplication of treatments and due to the additive CNS depressant and complex sleep-related behaviors that may occur. While anxiolytic medications may be used concurrently with suvorexant, a reduction in dose of one or both of these agents may be needed.
Methadone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with suvorexant may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with suvorexant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Methohexital: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of suvorexant if coadministration with a barbiturate is necessary. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased suvorexant exposure by 77% to 88%. Additive CNS effects, such as sedation and psychomotor impairment, are also possible. Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and of concomitant CNS depressants may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive effects. The use of suvorexant with other drugs to treat insomnia is not recommended. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should be cautioned against driving and other activities requiring complete mental alertness.
metyraPONE: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as suvorexant, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
Midazolam: (Moderate) CNS depressant drugs may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with suvorexant. A reduction in dose of the CNS depressant may be needed in some cases. These agents include the benzodiazepines.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Coadministration of suvorexant and chronic mifepristone therapy is not recommended due to the potential for significantly increased suvorexant exposure. The clinical significance of this interaction with the short-term use of mifepristone for termination of pregnancy is unknown. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate. Mifepristone is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2.8-fold.
Mirtazapine: (Moderate) CNS depressant drugs may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with suvorexant. A reduction in dose of the CNS depressant may be needed in some cases.
Mitotane: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of suvorexant if coadministration with mitotane is necessary. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased suvorexant exposure by 77% to 88%.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). Dosage adjustments may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants.
Morphine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with suvorexant may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with suvorexant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Nalbuphine: (Moderate) CNS depressant drugs may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with suvorexant. A reduction in dose of the CNS depressant may be needed. These agents include mixed opiate agonists/antagonists.
Nefazodone: (Major) Coadministration of suvorexant and nefazodone is not recommended due to the potential for significantly increased suvorexant exposure. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate. Nefazodone is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2.8-fold.
Nelfinavir: (Major) Coadministration of suvorexant and nelfinavir is not recommended due to the potential for significantly increased suvorexant exposure. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate. Nelfinavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2.8-fold.
Netupitant, Fosnetupitant; Palonosetron: (Major) A dose reduction to 5 mg of suvorexant is recommended during concurrent use with netupitant; palonosetron. The suvorexant dose may be increased to 10 mg if needed for efficacy. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate and netupitant is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2-fold.
Nilotinib: (Major) A dose reduction to 5 mg of suvorexant is recommended during concurrent use with nilotinib. The suvorexant dose may be increased to 10 mg if needed for efficacy. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate and nilotinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2-fold.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Coadministration of suvorexant and ritonavir is not recommended due to the potential for significantly increased suvorexant exposure. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate. Ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2.8-fold. (Major) Consider temporary discontinuation of suvorexant during treatment with ritonavir-boosted nirmatrelvir and for at least 2 to 3 days after treatment completion; if not feasible, consider alternative COVID-19 therapy. Coadministration may increase suvorexant exposure resulting in increased toxicity. Suvorexant is a CYP3A substrate and nirmatrelvir is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Nirogacestat: (Major) A dose reduction to 5 mg of suvorexant is recommended during concurrent use with nirogacestat. The suvorexant dose may be increased to 10 mg if needed for efficacy. Suvorexant is a CYP3A substrate and nirogacestat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2-fold.
Nortriptyline: (Moderate) The use of suvorexant with other CNS depressants (e.g., tricyclic antidepressants) increases the risk of CNS depression. Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and of concomitant CNS depressants may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive effects. The use of suvorexant with other drugs to treat insomnia, such as tricyclic antidepressants used for insomnia, is not recommended.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and atypical antipsyhotics. Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and the atypical antipsychotic may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and atypical antipsyhotics. Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and the atypical antipsychotic may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and atypical antipsyhotics. Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and the atypical antipsychotic may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants.
Oliceridine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of oliceridine with suvorexant may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of oliceridine with suvorexant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Opicapone: (Moderate) Opicapone should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including suvorexant, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors, such as opicapone, have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Oxazepam: (Moderate) CNS depressant drugs may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with suvorexant. A reduction in dose of the CNS depressant may be needed in some cases. These agents include the benzodiazepines.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with suvorexant may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with suvorexant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
oxyMORphone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with suvorexant may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with suvorexant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Paliperidone: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and atypical antipsyhotics. Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and the atypical antipsychotic may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants.
Pentazocine; Naloxone: (Moderate) CNS depressant drugs may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with suvorexant. A reduction in dose of the CNS depressant may be needed. These agents include mixed opiate agonists/antagonists.
PENTobarbital: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of suvorexant if coadministration with a barbiturate is necessary. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased suvorexant exposure by 77% to 88%. Additive CNS effects, such as sedation and psychomotor impairment, are also possible. Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and of concomitant CNS depressants may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive effects. The use of suvorexant with other drugs to treat insomnia is not recommended. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should be cautioned against driving and other activities requiring complete mental alertness.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) The use of suvorexant with other CNS depressants (e.g., tricyclic antidepressants) increases the risk of CNS depression. Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and of concomitant CNS depressants may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive effects. The use of suvorexant with other drugs to treat insomnia, such as tricyclic antidepressants used for insomnia, is not recommended.
Phenelzine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). Dosage adjustments may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants.
PHENobarbital: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of suvorexant if coadministration with a barbiturate is necessary. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased suvorexant exposure by 77% to 88%. Additive CNS effects, such as sedation and psychomotor impairment, are also possible. Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and of concomitant CNS depressants may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive effects. The use of suvorexant with other drugs to treat insomnia is not recommended. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should be cautioned against driving and other activities requiring complete mental alertness.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of suvorexant if coadministration with a barbiturate is necessary. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased suvorexant exposure by 77% to 88%. Additive CNS effects, such as sedation and psychomotor impairment, are also possible. Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and of concomitant CNS depressants may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive effects. The use of suvorexant with other drugs to treat insomnia is not recommended. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should be cautioned against driving and other activities requiring complete mental alertness.
Phenytoin: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of suvorexant if coadministration with phenytoin is necessary. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased suvorexant exposure by 77% to 88%.
Posaconazole: (Major) Coadministration of suvorexant and posaconazole is not recommended due to the potential for significantly increased suvorexant exposure. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate. Posaconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2.8-fold.
Pramipexole: (Moderate) CNS depressant drugs may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with suvorexant. A reduction in dose of the CNS depressant may be needed in some cases.
Pregabalin: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and pregabalin. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Primidone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of suvorexant if coadministration with a barbiturate is necessary. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased suvorexant exposure by 77% to 88%. Additive CNS effects, such as sedation and psychomotor impairment, are also possible. Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and of concomitant CNS depressants may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive effects. The use of suvorexant with other drugs to treat insomnia is not recommended. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should be cautioned against driving and other activities requiring complete mental alertness.
Propofol: (Moderate) CNS depressant drugs, including general anesthetics, may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with suvorexant. A reduction in dose of either suvorexant or the CNS depressant may be needed in some cases.
Protriptyline: (Moderate) The use of suvorexant with other CNS depressants (e.g., tricyclic antidepressants) increases the risk of CNS depression. Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and of concomitant CNS depressants may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive effects. The use of suvorexant with other drugs to treat insomnia, such as tricyclic antidepressants used for insomnia, is not recommended.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and sedating H1-blockers may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should generally avoid nonprescription antihistamine products that are marketed as sleep-aids concurrently with suvorexant.
Quazepam: (Moderate) CNS depressant drugs may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with suvorexant. A reduction in dose of the CNS depressant may be needed in some cases. These agents include the benzodiazepines.
QUEtiapine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and atypical antipsyhotics. Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and the atypical antipsychotic may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants.
quiNINE: (Major) A dose reduction to 5 mg of suvorexant is recommended during concurrent use with quinine. The suvorexant dose may be increased to 10 mg if needed for efficacy. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate and quinine is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2-fold.
Ramelteon: (Major) The use of suvorexant with other hypnotic drugs, such as ramelteon, is not recommended. Additive sedative, CNS depressant effects, impairment, and effects on mood and behaviors, including sleep-related behaviors, may occur.
Relacorilant: (Major) Coadministration of suvorexant and relacorilant is not recommended due to the potential for significantly increased suvorexant exposure. Suvorexant is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2.8-fold.
Remifentanil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with suvorexant may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with suvorexant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Remimazolam: (Moderate) CNS depressant drugs may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with suvorexant. A reduction in dose of the CNS depressant may be needed in some cases. These agents include the benzodiazepines.
Ribociclib: (Major) Coadministration of suvorexant and ribociclib is not recommended due to the potential for significantly increased suvorexant exposure. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2.8-fold.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Coadministration of suvorexant and ribociclib is not recommended due to the potential for significantly increased suvorexant exposure. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2.8-fold.
rifAMPin: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of suvorexant if coadministration with rifampin is necessary. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with rifampin decreased suvorexant exposure by 77% to 88%.
Rifapentine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of suvorexant if coadministration with rifapentine is necessary. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased suvorexant exposure by 77% to 88%.
Rilzabrutinib: (Major) A dose reduction to 5 mg of suvorexant is recommended during concurrent use with rilzabrutinib. The suvorexant dose may be increased to 10 mg if needed for efficacy. Suvorexant is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2-fold.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and atypical antipsyhotics. Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and the atypical antipsychotic may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants.
Ritlecitinib: (Major) A dose reduction to 5 mg of suvorexant is recommended during concurrent use with ritlecitinib. The suvorexant dose may be increased to 10 mg if needed for efficacy. Suvorexant is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2-fold.
Ritonavir: (Major) Coadministration of suvorexant and ritonavir is not recommended due to the potential for significantly increased suvorexant exposure. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate. Ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2.8-fold.
rOPINIRole: (Moderate) CNS depressant drugs may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with suvorexant. A reduction in dose of the CNS depressant may be needed in some cases.
Safinamide: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of safinamide with other sedating medications, such as suvorexant.
Saquinavir: (Major) Coadministration of suvorexant and saquinavir is not recommended due to the potential for significantly increased suvorexant exposure. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate. Saquinavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2.8-fold.
Secobarbital: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of suvorexant if coadministration with a barbiturate is necessary. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A4 inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased suvorexant exposure by 77% to 88%. Additive CNS effects, such as sedation and psychomotor impairment, are also possible. Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and of concomitant CNS depressants may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive effects. The use of suvorexant with other drugs to treat insomnia is not recommended. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should be cautioned against driving and other activities requiring complete mental alertness.
Sedating H1-blockers: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and sedating H1-blockers may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should generally avoid nonprescription antihistamine products that are marketed as sleep-aids concurrently with suvorexant.
Selegiline: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and selegiline. Dosage adjustments may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants.
Sevoflurane: (Moderate) CNS depressant drugs, including general anesthetics, may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with suvorexant. A reduction in dose of either suvorexant or the CNS depressant may be needed in some cases.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of suvorexant if coadministration with St. John's Wort is necessary. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate and St. John's Wort is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased suvorexant exposure by 77% to 88%.
Stiripentol: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of stiripentol and suvorexant. CNS depressants can potentiate the effects of stiripentol.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with suvorexant may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with suvorexant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Tapentadol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with suvorexant may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with suvorexant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Tasimelteon: (Major) The use of suvorexant with other hypnotic drugs, such as tasimelteon, is not recommended. Additive sedative, CNS depressant effects, impairment, and effects on mood and behaviors, including sleep-related behaviors, may occur.
Temazepam: (Moderate) CNS depressant drugs may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with suvorexant. A reduction in dose of the CNS depressant may be needed in some cases. These agents include the benzodiazepines.
Tipranavir: (Major) Coadministration of suvorexant and tipranavir is not recommended due to the potential for significantly increased suvorexant exposure. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate. Tipranavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2.8-fold.
Tolcapone: (Moderate) CNS depressant drugs may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with suvorexant. A reduction in dose of the CNS depressant may be needed in some cases.
Tradipitant: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
traMADol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with suvorexant may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with suvorexant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with suvorexant may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with suvorexant to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Major) A dose reduction to 5 mg of suvorexant is recommended during concurrent use with verapamil. The suvorexant dose may be increased to 10 mg if needed for efficacy. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2-fold.
Tranylcypromine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). Dosage adjustments may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants.
traZODone: (Moderate) CNS depressant drugs may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with suvorexant. A reduction in dose of the CNS depressant may be needed in some cases.
Triazolam: (Moderate) CNS depressant drugs may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with suvorexant. A reduction in dose of the CNS depressant may be needed in some cases. These agents include the benzodiazepines.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Moderate) The use of suvorexant with other CNS depressants (e.g., tricyclic antidepressants) increases the risk of CNS depression. Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and of concomitant CNS depressants may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive effects. The use of suvorexant with other drugs to treat insomnia, such as tricyclic antidepressants used for insomnia, is not recommended.
Trimipramine: (Moderate) The use of suvorexant with other CNS depressants (e.g., tricyclic antidepressants) increases the risk of CNS depression. Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and of concomitant CNS depressants may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive effects. The use of suvorexant with other drugs to treat insomnia, such as tricyclic antidepressants used for insomnia, is not recommended.
Triprolidine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and sedating H1-blockers may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should generally avoid nonprescription antihistamine products that are marketed as sleep-aids concurrently with suvorexant.
Tucatinib: (Major) Coadministration of suvorexant and tucatinib is not recommended due to the potential for significantly increased suvorexant exposure. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2.8-fold.
Valerian, Valeriana officinalis: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and valerian. Dosage adjustments may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. Any substances that act on the CNS may theoretically interact with valerian, Valeriana officinalis. The valerian derivative, dihydrovaltrate, binds at barbiturate binding sites; valerenic acid has been shown to inhibit enzyme-induced breakdown of GABA in the brain; the non-volatile monoterpenes (valepotriates) have sedative activity. These interactions are probably pharmacodynamic in nature. Patients who are taking medications for insomnia, like suvorexant, should generally avoid concomitant administration of valerian.
Verapamil: (Major) A dose reduction to 5 mg of suvorexant is recommended during concurrent use with verapamil. The suvorexant dose may be increased to 10 mg if needed for efficacy. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2-fold.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Coadministration of suvorexant and clarithromycin is not recommended due to the potential for significantly increased suvorexant exposure. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate. Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2.8-fold.
Voriconazole: (Major) Coadministration of suvorexant and voriconazole is not recommended due to the potential for significantly increased suvorexant exposure. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate. Voriconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2.8-fold.
Voxelotor: (Major) A dose reduction to 5 mg of suvorexant is recommended during concurrent use with voxelotor. The suvorexant dose may be increased to 10 mg if needed for efficacy. Suvorexant is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the suvorexant AUC by 2-fold.
Zafirlukast: (Major) Suvorexant is primarily metabolized by CYP3A, and the manufacturer recommends a dose reduction to 5 mg of suvorexant during concurrent use with moderate CYP3A inhibitors and a maximum recommended dose of 10 mg/day. Zafirlukast is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor, and increased plasma concentrations of suvorexant are possible during concurrent use of these drugs.
Zaleplon: (Moderate) Use of suvorexant with other sedatives and hypnotics should generally be avoided due to duplication of treatments and due to the additive CNS depressant and complex sleep-related behaviors that may occur. While anxiolytic medications may be used concurrently with suvorexant, a reduction in dose of one or both of these agents may be needed.
Ziprasidone: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and atypical antipsyhotics. Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and the atypical antipsychotic may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants.
Zolpidem: (Moderate) Use of suvorexant with other sedatives and hypnotics should generally be avoided due to duplication of treatments and due to the additive CNS depressant and complex sleep-related behaviors that may occur. While anxiolytic medications may be used concurrently with suvorexant, a reduction in dose of one or both of these agents may be needed.
Zuranolone: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    abnormal dreams, dizziness, drowsiness, headache, hyperactivity, memory impairment, psychomotor impairment
    General Information
    During clinical trials of suvorexant for the treatment of insomnia in non-elderly adult patients receiving 20 mg and elderly patients receiving 15 mg per night, the following adverse CNS effects were reported in at least 2% of suvorexant-treated patients and with a frequency greater than in patients receiving placebo: headache (7%), somnolence/drowsiness (7%), dizziness (3%), and abnormal dreams (2%). The incidence of somnolence was higher in female patients than male patients (8% vs. 3%). Adverse CNS effects reported in women with a frequency of at least twice that reported in men included headache and abnormal dreams. The adverse effect profile in elderly patients was generally consistent with non-elderly patients. In an insomnia study in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease (n = 285), somnolence/drowsiness (4%) and falls (2%) occurred more frequently in patients receiving suvorexant than placebo. Psychomotor impairment is possible. Providers should caution all patients receiving suvorexant about the risks of residual next-morning effects which may impair the ability to perform tasks requiring mental alertness, even if the patient feels fully awake. Studies evaluating the effects of nighttime administration of suvorexant on next-morning driving performance showed clinically meaningful impaired driving performance in some non-elderly subjects receiving 20 mg or 40 mg of suvorexant and some elderly subjects receiving 15 mg or 30 mg of suvorexant. During an evaluation of next-day memory impairment and balance, one of four studies showed a significant decrease in word recall after a 40 mg dose and a significant effect on balance after a single dose of 20 mg or 40 mg. No clear rebound or withdrawal effects were observed during the clinical trial evaluation of suvorexant. Psychomotor hyperactivity has been reported during postmarketing use; however, the frequency is unknown.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      memory impairment
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      abnormal dreams
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperactivity
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      psychomotor impairment
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    anxiety, depression, suicidal ideation
    General Information
    A variety of cognitive and behavioral changes (e.g., neuro-psychiatric symptoms) have been reported to occur in association with the use of hypnotics such as suvorexant. Suvorexant, like all CNS depressants, should be used cautiously in patients with symptoms of depression. Depressed patients may experience suicidal ideation and may be more likely to intentionally overdose on medications. In addition, worsening of depression may occur during suvorexant administration. Suicidal thoughts and actions, including completed suicides, have been reported in association with the use of sedative/hypnotics. Mental status changes (e.g., memory impairment, anxiety, bizarre behaviors) have been reported to occur with the use of sedatives-hypnotics. While they are infrequent, any emergence of changes in thinking, moods, or behavior should be evaluated. Anxiety has been reported during postmarketing use of suvorexant; however, the frequency is unknown.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      depression
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      suicidal ideation
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      anxiety
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    complex sleep-related behaviors, somnambulism
    General Information
    Complex sleep-related behaviors, which includes sleepwalking (somnambulism), sleep-driving, and completing activities while not fully awake (such as making phone calls, having sex, or preparing and eating food) can occur with the use of hypnotic medications, including suvorexant. Patients often have no recollection of these events. These activities can occur at any point in treatment and in both hypnotic-naive and experienced patients. They may also occur with or without concomitant use of alcohol or other CNS depressants. Patients should discontinue use of suvorexant immediately if any of these complex sleep-related behaviors occur and contact their health care provider about the events.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      complex sleep-related behaviors
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      somnambulism
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    cataplexy, hallucinations, myasthenia, sleep paralysis
    General Information
    Sleep paralysis (an inability to move or speak for up to several minutes during sleep-wake transitions), hypnagogic/hypnopompic hallucinations (vivid and disturbing perceptions by the patient around the time of falling to sleep and/or awakening), and mild cataplexy-like symptoms (periods of myasthenia lasting from seconds to a few minutes) can occur during use of suvorexant. The risk for mild cataplexy increases with increasing the suvorexant dose. Such symptoms can occur both at night and during the day, and may not be associated with an identified triggering event (e.g., laughter or surprise). The mechanism by which suvorexant exerts its therapeutic effect (i.e., antagonism of orexin receptors) may account for its ability to produce these events.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      myasthenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hallucinations
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      cataplexy
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      sleep paralysis
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, xerostomia
    General Information
    In suvorexant clinical trials for the treatment of insomnia in non-elderly adult patients receiving 20 mg and elderly patients receiving 15 mg, the following adverse gastrointestinal (GI) effects were reported in at least 2% of suvorexant-treated patients and with a frequency greater than with placebo: diarrhea (2%) and xerostomia (2%). In an insomnia study in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease (n = 285), xerostomia (2%) occurred more frequently in patients receiving suvorexant than with placebo. Nausea and vomiting have been observed with suvorexant during postmarketing experience.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    cough, infection
    General Information
    In suvorexant clinical trials for the treatment of insomnia in non-elderly adult patients receiving 20 mg and elderly patients receiving 15 mg, the following adverse respiratory effects were reported in at least 2% of suvorexant-treated patients and with a frequency greater than in patients receiving placebo: upper respiratory tract infection (2%) and cough (2%). The adverse effect profile in elderly patients was generally consistent with non-elderly patients. In patients with normal respiratory function, no respiratory depressant effects were observed after administration of 40 mg or 150 mg of suvorexant.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    palpitations, sinus tachycardia
    General Information
    Adverse cardiovascular effects, including sinus tachycardia and palpitations, have been reported during postmarketing use of suvorexant; however, the frequencies are unknown and causality to the drug has not been established.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      palpitations
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      sinus tachycardia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    psychological dependence
    General Information
    Suvorexant may carry a potential risk of psychological dependence, misuse, and/or abuse. Abuse of suvorexant is associated with an increased risk of somnolence, daytime drowsiness, impaired reaction time, and impaired driving skills. Conditions that may increase the risk for abuse include prolonged use, a history of drug abuse or alcoholism, and those who use suvorexant in combination with alcohol or other abused drugs. In an abuse liability study of recreational polydrug users, suvorexant produced similar subjective measures of abuse liability (e.g., drug liking and other measures of subjective drug effects) as zolpidem. Prolonged use of suvorexant did not demonstrate evidence of physical dependence. There were no reported withdrawal symptoms after discontinuation of suvorexant.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      psychological dependence
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    pruritus
    General Information
    Pruritus has been reported during postmarketing use of suvorexant; however, frequency and causality have not been established.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor

Description
  Text
  Suvorexant is an oral dual orexin receptor antagonist (DORA) indicated for the treatment of insomnia characterized by difficulties with sleep onset and/or sleep maintenance in adults, including patients with Alzheimer's disease who have insomnia. Suvorexant alters the signaling of neurotransmitters called orexins, which are responsible for regulating the sleep-wake cycle. Similar to other hypnotics, suvorexant may cause worsening of depression or suicidality, primarily in patients with pre-existing depression, and may cause psychomotor impairment in some patients. In addition, complex sleep-related behaviors such as sleep-walking, sleep talking, or engagement in other activities while not fully awake are also possible. Patients should be informed of the potential for worsening depression, suicidality, or complex sleep-related behaviors prior to initiating treatment and be advised to seek medical attention immediately if any of these adverse effects occur. Of note, and in contrast to many marketed hypnotic agents, there were no clinically meaningful differences in safety and efficacy between geriatric and younger adults during clinical trials of suvorexant; however, adult females or patients who are obese may have higher exposure to the drug and increased sensitivity to the drug's effects at usual doses. The Veterans Affairs/Department of Defense (VA/DoD) guidelines for management of chronic insomnia suggest suvorexant may be considered for short-term use in adults who are candidates for pharmacotherapy. The FDA approved suvorexant in August 2014.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  The mechanism by which suvorexant exerts its therapeutic effect in treating insomnia is thought to occur through its antagonism of orexin receptors. Suvorexant blocks the binding of wake-promoting neuropeptides orexin A and orexin B to the OX1R and OX2R receptors, subsequently suppressing the wake drive.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    After oral administration, peak concentrations occur at a median Tmax of 2 hours (range: 30 minutes to 6 hours) under fasting conditions. The Tmax is delayed by about 1.5 hours when suvorexant is administered with a high-fat meal, but there are no meaningful changes in AUC or Cmax. For fastest sleep onset, suvorexant should not be administered with or soon after a meal. The mean absolute bioavailability of the 10 mg dose is 82%. Suvorexant exposure increases in a less than dose-proportional manner over a range of 10 to 80 mg because of decreased absorption at higher doses.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    In a single dose study, the average terminal half-life of suvorexant was prolonged in patients with moderate hepatic impairment (19 hours; range: 11—49 hours) compared to healthy subjects (15 hours; range: 10—22 hours), although suvorexant exposure was similar between the groups. Although no dosage adjustments are required in patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment, the drug is not recommended for use in those with severe hepatic impairment, since the drug has not been formally evaluated in this population.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Suvorexant exposure is similar between patients with severe renal impairment (CrCl 30 mL/minute or less) and healthy subjects. No dosage adjustment is required in patients with renal impairment.
    Name
    Pediatrics
    Description
    Pharmacokinetic data are not available for pediatric patients.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Age is not predicted to have any clinically meaningful changes on suvorexant pharmacokinetics; therefore, no dose adjustment is warranted based upon age alone.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    Suvorexant exposure is increased in females compared to males. The AUC and Cmax are increased by 17% and 9%, respectively, in females after administration of a 40-mg dose. The average concentration of suvorexant 9 hours after administration of 10 to 40 mg is 5% higher in females. The risk of adverse effects from increased exposure to suvorexant, such as next-day impairment, should be considered prior to increasing the dose in females, although an initial reduction in dose is generally not needed based upon gender.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    Race is not predicted to have any clinically meaningful changes on suvorexant pharmacokinetics.
    Name
    Obesity
    Description
    Suvorexant exposure is increased in obese patients compared to non-obese patients. In obese patients, the AUC and Cmax are increased by 31% and 17%, respectively. The average concentration of suvorexant 9 hours after a 20 mg dose is 15% higher in obese patients compared to those with a normal BMI. In obese females, the AUC and Cmax are increased by 46% and 25%, respectively, compared to non-obese females. Therefore, the risk of adverse effects from increased exposure to suvorexant, such as next-day impairment, should be considered prior to increasing the dose, particularly in obese patients who are female.
  Text
  Suvorexant is administered orally. The kinetics of suvorexant are similar in healthy subjects and patients with insomnia. The mean volume of distribution is about 49 L. Suvorexant is highly protein bound (more than 99%) to both serum albumin and alpha-1 acid glycoprotein. Suvorexant is primarily metabolized by CYP3A, with minor involvement of CYP2C19, to form the inactive metabolite hydroxy-suvorexant. The mean half-life of suvorexant is about 12 hours. Elimination occurs primarily through the feces (66%), and to a lesser extent in the urine (23%).
 
Affected Cytochrome P450 (CYP450) isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A, P-glycoprotein (P-gp)
Suvorexant is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4. The recommended dose of suvorexant is 5 mg per night when used with moderate CYP3A inhibitors and the dose generally should not exceed 10 mg in these patients. Suvorexant is not recommended for use with strong CYP3A inhibitors. Suvorexant exposure can be substantially decreased when it is administered with strong CYP3A inducers and the efficacy of the drug may be reduced. Suvorexant presumably inhibits P-gp, and may alter the exposure to narrow therapeutic index drugs which are dependent on intestinal P-gp transport (i.e., digoxin).

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Administer within the 30 minutes prior to bedtime, with at least 7 hours remaining prior to planned awakening.
May administer with or without a meal. However, suvorexant may take longer to work if it is given with or right after a meal.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    20 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    20 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Not indicated.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Not indicated.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Suvorexant is not recommended in patients with severe hepatic impairment. No dosage adjustment is required in patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment.
  Renal Impairment
  No dosage adjustments are required in patients with renal impairment.
