=== Arimoclomol — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 5561)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Arimoclomol is indicated for use in combination with miglustat for the treatment of neurological manifestations of Niemann-Pick disease type C (NPC).

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: weighing more than 55 kg: 372 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): weight loss, headache, seizures, tremor

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. pregnancy There is no data available on the use of arimoclomol in human pregnancy to evaluate a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse outcomes....

ARIMOCLOMOL

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Miplyffa

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of neurological manifestations of Niemann-Pick disease type C (NPC) in combination with miglustat

Oral dosage
Adults weighing more than 55 kg


124 mg PO 3 times a day.


Adults weighing 31 to 55 kg


93 mg PO 3 times a day.


Children and Adolescents 2 to 17 years weighing more than 55 kg


124 mg PO 3 times a day.


Children and Adolescents 2 to 17 years weighing 31 to 55 kg


93 mg PO 3 times a day.


Children and Adolescents 2 to 17 years weighing 16 to 30 kg


62 mg PO 3 times per day.


Children and Adolescents 2 to 17 years weighing 8 to 15 kg


47 mg PO 3 times per day.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

pregnancy


There is no data available on the use of arimoclomol in human pregnancy to evaluate a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse outcomes. Based on animal data, arimoclomol may cause embryofetal harm. In animal studies, oral administration of arimoclomol to pregnant rats and rabbits resulted in post-implantation loss and structural abnormalities in offspring. These occurred at exposures equal to or greater than 10- fold and 5-fold for rats and rabbits, respectively, the human exposure at the maximum recommended human daily dose of 372 mg.


people who can cause pregnancy in others, people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk


Counsel people who may become pregnant and people who can cause pregnancy in others about the reproductive risk associated with arimoclomol. Arimoclomol may cause embryo-fetal harm when administered during pregnancy. Consider pregnancy planning and prevention for people who may become pregnant. Based on findings from animal studies, arimoclomol may impair fertility in both males and females. It is not known if these effects are reversible.


renal failure, renal impairment


Dosage adjustment of arimoclomol is recommended in individuals with renal impairment or renal failure. Plasma concentrations of arimoclomol are increased in individuals with eGFR 15 to 49 mL/minute. Increases in serum creatinine have occurred in individuals receiving arimoclomol during clinical trials. The mean increases in serum creatinine were 10% to 20% compared to baseline, usually occurred in the first month of treatment, were not associated with changes in glomerular function, and reversed upon arimoclomol discontinuation. Use alternative measures that are not based on creatinine to assess renal function/renal disease, such as BUN, cystatin C, or measured GFR during therapy with arimoclomol.


breast-feeding


Use arimoclomol with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of arimoclomol in human or animal milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effect on milk production. Consider the developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding alongside the patient's need for arimoclomol therapy and any potential adverse effects on the breast-fed child from the medication or the underlying maternal condition.


Pregnancy And Lactation


There is no data available on the use of arimoclomol in human pregnancy to evaluate a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse outcomes. Based on animal data, arimoclomol may cause embryofetal harm. In animal studies, oral administration of arimoclomol to pregnant rats and rabbits resulted in post-implantation loss and structural abnormalities in offspring. These occurred at exposures equal to or greater than 10- fold and 5-fold for rats and rabbits, respectively, the human exposure at the maximum recommended human daily dose of 372 mg.


Interactions

Alogliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metformin and arimoclomol may increase metformin exposure and increase the risk for lactic acidosis. If these drugs are given together, monitor for signs of metformin toxicity; metformin dose adjustments may be needed. Metformin is an OCT2 substrate; arimoclomol is an OCT2 inhibitor that may decrease metformin elimination by blocking renal tubular secretion.
Canagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metformin and arimoclomol may increase metformin exposure and increase the risk for lactic acidosis. If these drugs are given together, monitor for signs of metformin toxicity; metformin dose adjustments may be needed. Metformin is an OCT2 substrate; arimoclomol is an OCT2 inhibitor that may decrease metformin elimination by blocking renal tubular secretion.
Dapagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metformin and arimoclomol may increase metformin exposure and increase the risk for lactic acidosis. If these drugs are given together, monitor for signs of metformin toxicity; metformin dose adjustments may be needed. Metformin is an OCT2 substrate; arimoclomol is an OCT2 inhibitor that may decrease metformin elimination by blocking renal tubular secretion.
Dofetilide: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of dofetilide and arimoclomol is contraindicated. This combination may increase dofetilide exposure and the risk of dofetilide-related adverse effects including drug-induced QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Dofetilide is an OCT2 substrate and arimoclomol is an OCT2 inhibitor.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metformin and arimoclomol may increase metformin exposure and increase the risk for lactic acidosis. If these drugs are given together, monitor for signs of metformin toxicity; metformin dose adjustments may be needed. Metformin is an OCT2 substrate; arimoclomol is an OCT2 inhibitor that may decrease metformin elimination by blocking renal tubular secretion.
Empagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metformin and arimoclomol may increase metformin exposure and increase the risk for lactic acidosis. If these drugs are given together, monitor for signs of metformin toxicity; metformin dose adjustments may be needed. Metformin is an OCT2 substrate; arimoclomol is an OCT2 inhibitor that may decrease metformin elimination by blocking renal tubular secretion.
Ertugliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metformin and arimoclomol may increase metformin exposure and increase the risk for lactic acidosis. If these drugs are given together, monitor for signs of metformin toxicity; metformin dose adjustments may be needed. Metformin is an OCT2 substrate; arimoclomol is an OCT2 inhibitor that may decrease metformin elimination by blocking renal tubular secretion.
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metformin and arimoclomol may increase metformin exposure and increase the risk for lactic acidosis. If these drugs are given together, monitor for signs of metformin toxicity; metformin dose adjustments may be needed. Metformin is an OCT2 substrate; arimoclomol is an OCT2 inhibitor that may decrease metformin elimination by blocking renal tubular secretion.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metformin and arimoclomol may increase metformin exposure and increase the risk for lactic acidosis. If these drugs are given together, monitor for signs of metformin toxicity; metformin dose adjustments may be needed. Metformin is an OCT2 substrate; arimoclomol is an OCT2 inhibitor that may decrease metformin elimination by blocking renal tubular secretion.
Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metformin and arimoclomol may increase metformin exposure and increase the risk for lactic acidosis. If these drugs are given together, monitor for signs of metformin toxicity; metformin dose adjustments may be needed. Metformin is an OCT2 substrate; arimoclomol is an OCT2 inhibitor that may decrease metformin elimination by blocking renal tubular secretion.
metFORMIN: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metformin and arimoclomol may increase metformin exposure and increase the risk for lactic acidosis. If these drugs are given together, monitor for signs of metformin toxicity; metformin dose adjustments may be needed. Metformin is an OCT2 substrate; arimoclomol is an OCT2 inhibitor that may decrease metformin elimination by blocking renal tubular secretion.
metFORMIN; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metformin and arimoclomol may increase metformin exposure and increase the risk for lactic acidosis. If these drugs are given together, monitor for signs of metformin toxicity; metformin dose adjustments may be needed. Metformin is an OCT2 substrate; arimoclomol is an OCT2 inhibitor that may decrease metformin elimination by blocking renal tubular secretion.
metFORMIN; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metformin and arimoclomol may increase metformin exposure and increase the risk for lactic acidosis. If these drugs are given together, monitor for signs of metformin toxicity; metformin dose adjustments may be needed. Metformin is an OCT2 substrate; arimoclomol is an OCT2 inhibitor that may decrease metformin elimination by blocking renal tubular secretion.
Pioglitazone; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metformin and arimoclomol may increase metformin exposure and increase the risk for lactic acidosis. If these drugs are given together, monitor for signs of metformin toxicity; metformin dose adjustments may be needed. Metformin is an OCT2 substrate; arimoclomol is an OCT2 inhibitor that may decrease metformin elimination by blocking renal tubular secretion.


Adverse Reaction
angioedema, urticaria


Hypersensitivity reactions have been reported in patients (age: 2 to 19 years) receiving arimoclomol during clinical trials. Urticaria was reported in 12% of patients. Two patients (6%) experienced both urticaria and angioedema and 1 patient (3%) experienced urticaria alone. Two patients withdrew from the trial due to progressive urticaria and angioedema. The reactions occurred within the first 2 months of treatment. Discontinue arimoclomol in patients who develop severe hypersensitivity reactions. If a mild or moderate reaction should occur, discontinue arimoclomol and treat promptly. Monitor the patient until signs and symptoms resolve.


infection


Upper respiratory tract infection (31% vs. 15%, placebo with miglustat) and lower respiratory tract infection (12% vs. 8%, placebo with miglustat) were reported in patients (age: 2 to 19 years) receiving arimoclomol and miglustat during clinical trials.


anorexia, diarrhea, weight loss


Diarrhea (23% vs. 23%, placebo with miglustat), decreased weight/weight loss (15% vs. 0%, placebo with miglustat), and decreased appetite/anorexia (12% vs. 0%, placebo with miglustat) were reported in patients (age: 2 to 19 years) receiving arimoclomol and miglustat during clinical trials. Patients with a decrease in weight resolved in all but 1 patient. The mean duration of weight loss was 33 days (range: 22 to 60 days). One patient reported 2 separate incidences of weight loss lasting 22 and 24 days. The mean decrease in weight was approximately 6% from baseline. Arimoclomol therapy was not interrupted in any of the patients experiencing weight loss.


thrombocytopenia


Thrombocytopenia was reported in 3 patients (12%) receiving arimoclomol and miglustat during a clinical trial. All of these patients had received miglustat for 6 months or longer prior to enrollment in the clinical trial. Two patients had thrombocytopenia at the start of the clinical trial, and it persisted throughout the trial. One patient developed thrombocytopenia during the trial, which resolved during the trial. An increase in creatinine was reported in clinical trials in patients receiving arimoclomol, including those with Niemann-Pick disease type C (NPC), healthy subjects, and patients with other diseases. The mean increase in creatinine was 10% to 20% compared to baseline, mainly occurring during the first month of dosing, was not associated with changes in glomerular function, and was reversible upon treatment discontinuation. One patient had to withdraw from the trial due to an increase in serum creatinine. During treatment with arimoclomol, use alternative measures that are not based on creatinine to assess renal function, such as BUN, cystatin C, or measured GFR.


headache, seizures, tremor


Tremor (12% vs. 0%, placebo with miglustat), headache (12% vs. 8%, placebo with miglustat), and seizures (12% vs. 8%, placebo with miglustat) were reported in patients (age: 2 to 19 years) receiving arimoclomol and miglustat during clinical trials.


infertility


Based on findings from animal studies, arimoclomol may cause infertility in both males and females. Oral administration of arimoclomol in rats resulted in decreased male and female fertility at 9-fold the human exposure and increased pre-implantation loss at 5-fold the human exposure, based on AUC at the maximum recommended human dose. It is not known if these effects are reversible.


Description

Arimoclomol is indicated for use in combination with miglustat for the treatment of neurological manifestations of Niemann-Pick disease type C (NPC). NPC is a rare inherited autosomal recessive genetic disorder where the body is unable to transport cholesterol and other lipids within a cell. This leads to the accumulation of cholesterol and other lipids inside various tissues of the body, including brain tissue. NPC is caused by changes in the NPC1 gene or the NPC2 gene. During clinical trials, patients (age: 2 to 19 years) treated with arimoclomol and miglustat showed an improvement (mean change of -0.2) in their restored 4-domain NPC Clinical Severity Scale (R4DNPCCSS) score at month 12, while those on placebo and miglustat experienced a worsening R4DNPCCSS score (mean change of 1.9). The placebo-subtracted difference was -2.2 (-3.8, -0.6), suggesting a statistically significant benefit of arimoclomol over placebo in this subgroup. There is insufficient data to determine the effectiveness of the use of arimoclomol without miglustat for the treatment of neurological manifestations in patients with NPC. Arimoclomol may increase serum creatinine without affecting glomerular function. Patients who are pregnant or plan to become pregnant should not use arimoclomol. Arimoclomol was FDA-approved in September 2024.

Mechanism Of Action

The mechanism by which arimoclomol works in patients with Niemann-Pick disease type C (NPC) is unknown. NPC is a result of dysfunctional NPC proteins, impaired lysosomal function, and lipid accumulation. During cellular stress, the heat shock response (HSR) is part of the natural cellular defense which prevents protein misfolding and promotes lysosomal homeostasis. HSR is linked directly to lysosomal function, integrity, and protects against cell death. Arimoclomol is thought to help the natural response to cellular stress by inducing HSR and production of the heat shock proteins (HSPs) to prevent protein misfolding, but also facilitates lysosomal function. Arimoclomol preserves cellular function and prevents cell death in cells experiencing lysosomal stress.

Pharmacokinetics

Arimoclomol is administered orally. The mean Vd in healthy adults is 211 L. A dose-dependent increase in arimoclomol cerebral spinal fluid concentrations was seen at steady state. Plasma protein binding is approximately 10%. Arimoclomol is predominantly metabolized through glutathionation, O-glucuronidation and NO-oxime cleavage. Approximately 12% of the dose is excreted in the feces and 77.5% is excreted in the urine (42% unchanged). The elimination half-life is approximately 4 hours.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: OCT2
Arimoclomol is an inhibitor of OCT2. It may cause relevant changes in exposure of OCT2 substrates, including the endogenous substrate creatinine. Arimoclomol is a substrate of MATE1 and MATE2-K transporters; MATE1 and MATE2-K inhibitors are not expected to have a clinically relevant effect on arimoclomol exposure. Arimoclomol is not an inhibitor or inducer of CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, or CYP3A4/5. Arimoclomol is not an inhibitor of P-gp, BCRP, OATP1B1, OATP1B3, OAT1, OAT3, MATE1, and MATE2-K transporters.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route

The absolute bioavailability of arimoclomol after oral administration has not been determined. The Tmax was approximately 0.5 hours. Arimoclomol exhibits linear and dose proportional pharmacokinetics after oral administration of doses ranging from 62 to 372 mg. The plasma Cmax and AUC of arimoclomol on Day 1 (first dose) and Day 6 (steady state) in healthy individuals receiving a 248 mg dose (2 times the recommended dose) were 1,749 ng/mL and 5,317 ng/mL x hour and 2,090 ng/mL and 7,207 ng/mL x hour, respectively. No significant difference in arimoclomol pharmacokinetics was observed after the administration of a high-fat meal (1,000 calories, 60% fat) to healthy individuals.

Hepatic Impairment

No clinically relevant difference in arimoclomol pharmacokinetics was observed in individuals with mild to moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Score A or B) compared to individuals with normal hepatic function. Arimoclomol has not been studied in individuals with severe hepatic impairment.

Renal Impairment

Patients with moderate to severe renal impairment (eGFR 15 to 49 mL/minute) had an approximate 2-fold increase in AUC compared to individuals with normal renal function (eGFR 90 mL/minute or greater). There was no clinically meaningful difference in AUC in subjects with an eGFR of 50 mL/minute or more. Arimoclomol has not been studied in patients with severe renal impairment (eGFR less than 15 mL/minute).

Pediatrics

In pediatric patients with Niemann-Pick disease type C (NPC) who received the recommended dosing regimens, the estimated steady state Ctrough and Cmax were 206 +/- 60 ng/mL and 523 +/- 194 ng/mL, respectively.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Oral Administration
Oral Solid Formulations


Administer with or without food.
Use actual body weight to calculate dosage.
Administer arimoclomol in combination with miglustat.
Swallow capsule whole.
Missed dose: skip the missed dose and resume taking the prescribed dose at the next scheduled time.
Oral administration for individuals who have difficulty swallowing capsules:
Open the capsule and sprinkle the entire contents into 15 mL of water or apple juice or 15 mL of soft food (applesauce, pudding or yogurt).
Stir the mixture for 15 seconds. Some of the capsule contents may remain in the mixture.
Swallow the entire mixture immediately. Do not save any mixture for later use.
Feeding tube administration (nasogastric or gastric tube):
Open the capsule and sprinkle the entire contents into 20 mL of water. Use only water.
Stir the mixture for 15 seconds. Some of the capsule contents may remain in the mixture.
Administer the entire mixture immediately via the feeding tube. Do not save the mixture for later use.
Flush the feeding tube with 5 mL of water after administration.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

weighing more than 55 kg: 372 mg/day PO.
weighing 31 to 55 kg: 279 mg/day PO.

Geriatric

weighing more than 55 kg: 372 mg/day PO.
weighing 31 to 55 kg: 279 mg/day PO.

Adolescents

weighing more than 55 kg: 372 mg/day PO.
weighing 31 to 55 kg: 279 mg/day PO.
weighing 16 to 30 kg: 186 mg/day PO.

Children

2 to 12 years weighing more than 55 kg: 372 mg/day PO.
2 to 12 years weighing 31 to 55 kg: 279 mg/day PO.
2 to 12 years weighing 16 to 30 kg: 186 mg/day PO.
2 to 12 years weighing 8 to 15 kg: 141 mg/day PO.
1 year: Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

MIPLYFFA 124mg Capsule

MIPLYFFA 47mg Capsule

MIPLYFFA 62mg Capsule

MIPLYFFA 93mg Capsule

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

Renal Impairment

eGFR 50 mL/minute or more: No adjustment needed.
eGFR 15 to less than 50 mL/minute:
more than 55 kg: 124 mg PO 2 times a day.
31 kg to 55 kg: 93 mg PO 2 times per day.
16 kg to 30 kg: 62 mg PO 2 times per day.
8 to 15 kg: 47 mg PO 2 times per day.


© 2026 Elsevier