=== Mavorixafor (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5534)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Mavorixafor is an oral CXC chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4) antagonist indicated for the treatment of WHIM syndrome (warts, hypogammaglobulinemia, infections, and myelokathexis) to increase the number of circulating mature neutrophils and lymphocytes.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: Weighing more than 50 kg: 400 mg/day PO.

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Use mavorixafor with caution in people with baseline QT prolongation or who have conditions that may increase the risk of QT prolongation or torsades de pointes, including bradycardia...

Brand Names
  - Xolremdi

Dosage Forms
  - Xolremdi 100mg Capsule

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults weighing more than 50 kg
        Dosage Description
        400 mg PO once daily. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.
        Heading
        Adults weighing 50 kg or less
        Dosage Description
        300 mg PO once daily. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.
        Heading
        Children and Adolescents 12 to 17 years weighing more than 50 kg
        Dosage Description
        400 mg PO once daily. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.
        Heading
        Children and Adolescents 12 to 17 years weighing 50 kg or less
        Dosage Description
        300 mg PO once daily. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.
    Heading
    For the treatment of WHIM syndrome (warts, hypogammaglobulinemia, infections, and myelokathexis)

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    bradycardia, cardiomyopathy, congenital long QT syndrome, coronary artery disease, females, geriatric, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, QT prolongation
    General Information
    Use mavorixafor with caution in people with baseline QT prolongation or who have conditions that may increase the risk of QT prolongation or torsades de pointes, including bradycardia, congenital long QT syndrome, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, geriatric adults, females, structural abnormalities that interfere with electrical conduction (e.g., cardiomyopathy, coronary artery disease, ischemic heart disease), or in those who have other additional risk factors for QT prolongation or torsades de pointes. The use of other medications that have been associated with QT prolongation or torsade de pointes may further increase risk. Assess QTc interval at baseline and monitor QTc during treatment with mavorixafor as clinically indicated in individuals with risk factors for QTc prolongation.
    Headline
    hepatic failure
    General Information
    Mavorixafor is not recommended in individuals with moderate to severe hepatic impairment or hepatic failure. The pharmacokinetics of mavorixafor have not been studied in moderate to severe hepatic impairment.
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    Mavorixafor is not recommended in individuals with severe renal impairment (CrCl 15 to 29 mL/minute) or renal failure (CrCl less than 15 mL/minute). The pharmacokinetics of mavorixafor have not been studied in severe renal impairment or end-stage renal disease.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Mavorixafor may cause fetal harm if used during pregnancy, based on its mechanism of action. There are no data on the use of mavorixafor during pregnancy to evaluate for a drug-associated risk of embryo-fetal toxicity. Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted. CXC chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4)/stromal-derived factor-1 (SDF-1) signaling plays an important role in mammalian embryo-fetal and placental development. Animal models link reductions in CXCR4/SDF-1 signaling to adverse embryo-fetal outcomes. In mice, CXCR4-/- knockout is embryo-lethal and causes multiple developmental toxicities, most notably in the hematopoietic, cardiovascular, and nervous systems. CXCR4/SDF-1 concentrations also play a key role in stimulating trophoblast proliferation and differentiation necessary for appropriate placental growth and function in humans. Advise pregnant individuals of the potential fetal risk.
    Headline
    people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel people who may become pregnant about the reproductive risk associated with mavorixafor. Mavorixafor may cause fetal harm. Verify pregnancy status prior to treatment initiation. Advise people who may become pregnant to use effective contraception while taking mavorixafor and for 3 weeks after the last dose.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking mavorixafor and for 3 weeks after the last dose. Mavorixafor has the potential to cause serious side effects in the breast-fed child. There are no data on the presence of mavorixafor in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Mavorixafor may cause fetal harm if used during pregnancy, based on its mechanism of action. There are no data on the use of mavorixafor during pregnancy to evaluate for a drug-associated risk of embryo-fetal toxicity. Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted. CXC chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4)/stromal-derived factor-1 (SDF-1) signaling plays an important role in mammalian embryo-fetal and placental development. Animal models link reductions in CXCR4/SDF-1 signaling to adverse embryo-fetal outcomes. In mice, CXCR4-/- knockout is embryo-lethal and causes multiple developmental toxicities, most notably in the hematopoietic, cardiovascular, and nervous systems. CXCR4/SDF-1 concentrations also play a key role in stimulating trophoblast proliferation and differentiation necessary for appropriate placental growth and function in humans. Advise pregnant individuals of the potential fetal risk.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking mavorixafor and for 3 weeks after the last dose. Mavorixafor has the potential to cause serious side effects in the breast-fed child. There are no data on the presence of mavorixafor in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production.

Interactions
Abacavir; Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with mavorixafor. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp substrate and mavorixafor is a P-gp inhibitor.
Abrocitinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with abrocitinib. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and abrocitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of dihydrocodeine with mavorixafor may alter dihydrocodeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal or prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage adjustment of dihydrocodeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of mavorixafor could alter dihydrocodeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as prolonged opioid adverse reactions or decreased opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If mavorixafor is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider adjusting the opioid dosage if appropriate. Dihydrocodeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to dihydromorphine, and by CYP3A; mavorixafor is a dual strong 2D6 and weak 3A inhibitor. CYP3A inhibitors may increase codeine-related adverse effects while CYP2D6 inhibitors may reduce efficacy.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in chlorpheniramine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with mavorixafor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase chlorpheniramine concentrations. Chlorpheniramine is a CYP2D6 substrate and mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in chlorpheniramine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with mavorixafor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase chlorpheniramine concentrations. Chlorpheniramine is a CYP2D6 substrate and mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as dizziness or drowsiness, if concomitant use of mavorixafor is necessary. For patients receiving combination dextromethorphan; bupropion, do not exceed a maximum dose of 45 mg dextromethorphan; 105 mg bupropion once daily. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure and side effects. Dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate and mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use increased dextromethorphan overall exposure by 9-fold.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in chlorpheniramine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with mavorixafor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase chlorpheniramine concentrations. Chlorpheniramine is a CYP2D6 substrate and mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as dizziness or drowsiness, if concomitant use of mavorixafor is necessary. For patients receiving combination dextromethorphan; bupropion, do not exceed a maximum dose of 45 mg dextromethorphan; 105 mg bupropion once daily. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure and side effects. Dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate and mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use increased dextromethorphan overall exposure by 9-fold.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in chlorpheniramine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with mavorixafor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase chlorpheniramine concentrations. Chlorpheniramine is a CYP2D6 substrate and mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as dizziness or drowsiness, if concomitant use of mavorixafor is necessary. For patients receiving combination dextromethorphan; bupropion, do not exceed a maximum dose of 45 mg dextromethorphan; 105 mg bupropion once daily. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure and side effects. Dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate and mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use increased dextromethorphan overall exposure by 9-fold.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in chlorpheniramine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with mavorixafor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase chlorpheniramine concentrations. Chlorpheniramine is a CYP2D6 substrate and mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with mavorixafor may alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal or prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage adjustment of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of mavorixafor could alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as prolonged opioid adverse reactions or decreased opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If mavorixafor is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider adjusting the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); mavorixafor is a dual strong CYP2D6 and weak CYP3A inhibitor. CYP3A inhibitors may increase codeine-related adverse effects while CYP2D6 inhibitors may reduce efficacy.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as dizziness or drowsiness, if concomitant use of mavorixafor is necessary. For patients receiving combination dextromethorphan; bupropion, do not exceed a maximum dose of 45 mg dextromethorphan; 105 mg bupropion once daily. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure and side effects. Dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate and mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use increased dextromethorphan overall exposure by 9-fold.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Moderate) Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as dizziness or drowsiness, if concomitant use of mavorixafor is necessary. For patients receiving combination dextromethorphan; bupropion, do not exceed a maximum dose of 45 mg dextromethorphan; 105 mg bupropion once daily. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure and side effects. Dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate and mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use increased dextromethorphan overall exposure by 9-fold.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as dizziness or drowsiness, if concomitant use of mavorixafor is necessary. For patients receiving combination dextromethorphan; bupropion, do not exceed a maximum dose of 45 mg dextromethorphan; 105 mg bupropion once daily. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure and side effects. Dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate and mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use increased dextromethorphan overall exposure by 9-fold.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as dizziness or drowsiness, if concomitant use of mavorixafor is necessary. For patients receiving combination dextromethorphan; bupropion, do not exceed a maximum dose of 45 mg dextromethorphan; 105 mg bupropion once daily. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure and side effects. Dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate and mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use increased dextromethorphan overall exposure by 9-fold.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as dizziness or drowsiness, if concomitant use of mavorixafor is necessary. For patients receiving combination dextromethorphan; bupropion, do not exceed a maximum dose of 45 mg dextromethorphan; 105 mg bupropion once daily. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure and side effects. Dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate and mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use increased dextromethorphan overall exposure by 9-fold.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as dizziness or drowsiness, if concomitant use of mavorixafor is necessary. For patients receiving combination dextromethorphan; bupropion, do not exceed a maximum dose of 45 mg dextromethorphan; 105 mg bupropion once daily. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure and side effects. Dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate and mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use increased dextromethorphan overall exposure by 9-fold.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of mavorixafor is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP2D6 and CYP3A inhibitors like mavorixafor can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. If mavorixafor is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of mavorixafor is necessary. If mavorixafor is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with weak CYP3A inhibitors like mavorixafor can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If mavorixafor is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Adagrasib: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and adagrasib may increase mavorixafor exposure and the risk for mavorixafor-related adverse effects, including QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Decrease the mavorixafor dose to 200 mg PO once daily and consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate, adagrasib is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor increased mavorixafor overall exposure by 2-fold. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Afatinib: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of mavorixafor and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of mavorixafor. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and mavorixafor is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC of afatinib was 119% when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of alfentanil with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of mavorixafor is necessary. If mavorixafor is discontinued, consider increasing the alfentanil dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Alfentanil is a sensitive CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like mavorixafor can increase alfentanil exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of alfentanil. If mavorixafor is discontinued, alfentanil plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to alfentanil.
Alfuzosin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and alfuzosin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Alogliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for glycemic control and adjust the dose of metformin as necessary during concomitant use of mavorixafor. Concomitant use has been observed to decrease metformin overall exposure by 35% which may reduce its efficacy.
ALPRAZolam: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and mavorixafor due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with mavorixafor, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and mavorixafor is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
Amiodarone: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and amiodarone may increase mavorixafor exposure and the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects, reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day, and consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate, amiodarone is a P-gp inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Due to the extremely long half-life of amiodarone, a drug interaction is possible for days to weeks after drug discontinuation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Amisulpride: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and amisulpride increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tricyclic antidepressant (TCA)-related adverse reactions if coadministration with mavorixafor is necessary; a dose reduction of TCA may be necessary. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of TCAs which are CYP2D6 substrates; mavorixafor is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with mavorixafor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a P-gp substrate; mavorixafor is a P-gp inhibitor.
Amobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mavorixafor and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease mavorixafor exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Amoxapine: (Major) Lower doses of amoxapine may be required during concurrent use of mavorixafor due to the potential for increased amoxapine exposure. If mavorixafor is discontinued, an increased dose of amoxapine may be necessary. Amoxapine is a CYP2D6 substrate; mavorixafor is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and clarithromycin may increase mavorixafor exposure and the risk for mavorixafor-related adverse effects, including QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Decrease the mavorixafor dose to 200 mg PO once daily and consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate, clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor increased mavorixafor overall exposure by 2-fold. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Anagrelide: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and anagrelide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mavorixafor and apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease mavorixafor exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Apomorphine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and apomorphine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with aprepitant/fosaprepitant. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate and aprepitant/fosaprepitant is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
ARIPiprazole: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and aripiprazole may increase aripiprazole exposure and the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and mavorixafor vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer a quarter of the usual dose. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 200 mg/month or from 300 mg to 160 mg/month. For extended-release aripiprazole injections given once every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), reduce the dosage from 960 mg to 720 mg. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Aripiprazole is CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate, mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 and weak CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose. (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and aripiprazole may increase aripiprazole exposure and the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and mavorixafor vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), reduce the dose to the next lowest strength; no dosage adjustment is required for patients tolerating 441 mg or for patients known to be poor metabolizers of CYP2D6. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Aripiprazole is CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate, mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 and weak CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Arsenic Trioxide: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and arsenic trioxide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Artemether; Lumefantrine: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and artemether increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose. (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and lumefantrine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Asciminib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with asciminib. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and asciminib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Asenapine: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and asenapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mavorixafor and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease mavorixafor exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with mavorixafor may alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal or prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage adjustment of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of mavorixafor could alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as prolonged opioid adverse reactions or decreased opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If mavorixafor is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider adjusting the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); mavorixafor is a dual strong CYP2D6 and weak CYP3A inhibitor. CYP3A inhibitors may increase codeine-related adverse effects while CYP2D6 inhibitors may reduce efficacy.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of mavorixafor is necessary. If mavorixafor is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with weak CYP3A inhibitors like mavorixafor can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If mavorixafor is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Atazanavir: (Major) Decrease the mavorixafor dose to 200 mg PO once daily and monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use with atazanavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure and the risk for mavorixafor-related adverse effects. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Decrease the mavorixafor dose to 200 mg PO once daily and monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use with atazanavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure and the risk for mavorixafor-related adverse effects. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Major) Decrease the mavorixafor dose to 200 mg PO once daily and monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use with cobicistat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure and the risk for mavorixafor-related adverse effects. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor increased mavorixafor overall exposure by 2-fold.
Atomoxetine: (Major) A dosage reduction of atomoxetine is recommended in patients receiving mavorixafor due to the potential for increased atomoxetine exposure and related adverse effects. Concomitant use may also increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. In children and adolescents up to 70 kg receiving mavorixafor, atomoxetine should be initiated at 0.5 mg/kg/day and only increased to the usual target dose of 1.2 mg/kg/day if symptoms fail to improve after 4 weeks and the initial dose is well tolerated. In children and adolescents more than 70 kg and adults receiving mavorixafor, atomoxetine should be initiated at 40 mg/day and only increased to the usual target dose of 80 mg/day if symptoms fail to improve after 4 weeks and the initial dose is well tolerated. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Atomoxetine is a CYP2D6 substrate, mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration of a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor and atomoxetine in extensive metabolizers of CYP2D6 increased atomoxetine steady-state plasma concentrations by approximately 6 to 8-fold. This increase is similar to exposures observed in poor metabolizers. Concurrent use of a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor with atomoxetine in poor metabolizers is not expected to increase atomoxetine exposure. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with mavorixafor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a P-gp substrate; mavorixafor is a P-gp inhibitor.
Avacopan: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with avacopan. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Azithromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and azithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase mavorixafor exposure and the risk for other mavorixafor-related adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day if needed based on response. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate, azithromycin is a P-gp inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Barbiturates: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mavorixafor and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease mavorixafor exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Bedaquiline: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and bedaquiline increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Belumosudil: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with belumosudil. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and belumosudil is a P-gp inhibitor.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of benzhydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of mavorixafor is necessary. Benzhydrocodone is a prodrug for hydrocodone. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with weak CYP3A inhibitors like mavorixafor can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of benzhydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If mavorixafor is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to benzhydrocodone.
Berotralstat: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with berotralstat. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate and berotralstat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Bictegravir; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with mavorixafor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and mavorixafor is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with lenacapavir. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Bismuth Subcitrate Potassium; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and metronidazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and metronidazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Brexpiprazole: (Major) A brexpiprazole dosage reduction may be needed for some indications if brexpiprazole is coadministered with mavorixafor. For patients with schizophrenia, reduce the brexpiprazole dose to half the usual dose; reduce the brexpiprazole dose to one-quarter (25%) of the usual dose if brexpiprazole and mavorixafor are also coadministered with a strong or moderate CYP3A inhibitor. No brexpiprazole dosage adjustment is needed for patients who are receiving brexpiprazole as adjunct treatment for major depressive disorder. Concomitant use may increase brexpiprazole exposure and risk for brexpiprazole-related adverse effects. Brexpiprazole is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Brigatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with brigatinib. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and brigatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of bradycardia or heart block if coadministration of timolol with mavorixafor is necessary. Concomitant use may enhance the beta-blocking properties of timolol resulting in further slowing of the heart rate or cardiac conduction. Timolol is a CYP2D6 substrate and mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as dizziness or drowsiness, if concomitant use of mavorixafor is necessary. For patients receiving combination dextromethorphan; bupropion, do not exceed a maximum dose of 45 mg dextromethorphan; 105 mg bupropion once daily. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure and side effects. Dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate and mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use increased dextromethorphan overall exposure by 9-fold.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as dizziness or drowsiness, if concomitant use of mavorixafor is necessary. For patients receiving combination dextromethorphan; bupropion, do not exceed a maximum dose of 45 mg dextromethorphan; 105 mg bupropion once daily. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure and side effects. Dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate and mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use increased dextromethorphan overall exposure by 9-fold.
Buprenorphine: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and buprenorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Concomitant use can also increase the plasma concentration of buprenorphine, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects, particularly when mavorixafor is added after a stable buprenorphine dose is achieved. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Additionally, consider dosage reduction of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patient for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. When stopping mavorixafor, the buprenorphine concentration may decrease, potentially resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependency. Buprenorphine is a CYP3A substrate, mavorixafor is a CYP3A4 inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and buprenorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Concomitant use can also increase the plasma concentration of buprenorphine, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects, particularly when mavorixafor is added after a stable buprenorphine dose is achieved. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Additionally, consider dosage reduction of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patient for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. When stopping mavorixafor, the buprenorphine concentration may decrease, potentially resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependency. Buprenorphine is a CYP3A substrate, mavorixafor is a CYP3A4 inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mavorixafor and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease mavorixafor exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mavorixafor and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease mavorixafor exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mavorixafor and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease mavorixafor exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with mavorixafor may alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal or prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage adjustment of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of mavorixafor could alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as prolonged opioid adverse reactions or decreased opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If mavorixafor is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider adjusting the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); mavorixafor is a dual strong CYP2D6 and weak CYP3A inhibitor. CYP3A inhibitors may increase codeine-related adverse effects while CYP2D6 inhibitors may reduce efficacy.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mavorixafor and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease mavorixafor exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with mavorixafor may alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal or prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage adjustment of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of mavorixafor could alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as prolonged opioid adverse reactions or decreased opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If mavorixafor is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider adjusting the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); mavorixafor is a dual strong CYP2D6 and weak CYP3A inhibitor. CYP3A inhibitors may increase codeine-related adverse effects while CYP2D6 inhibitors may reduce efficacy.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and rilpivirine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Canagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for glycemic control and adjust the dose of metformin as necessary during concomitant use of mavorixafor. Concomitant use has been observed to decrease metformin overall exposure by 35% which may reduce its efficacy.
Cannabidiol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with cannabidiol. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and cannabidiol is a P-gp inhibitor.
Capmatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with capmatinib. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and capmatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mavorixafor and carbamazepine. Concurrent use may decrease mavorixafor exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Concomitant use may also increase carbamazepine concentrations. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate and inhibitor and carbamazepine is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inducer.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) Monitor for side effects of both medications if concomitant use of carvedilol with mavorixafor is necessary. Reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day. Concomitant use may increase the exposure of both drugs. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and strong CYP2D6 inhibitor; carvedilol is a CYP2D6 substrate and P-gp inhibitor.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tramadol with mavorixafor may produce unpredictable effects, including prolonged opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression, a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to opioid agonists, seizures, or serotonin syndrome. Consider dose adjustments of tramadol until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. Tramadol is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to the active metabolite M1, and by CYP3A; mavorixafor is a dual strong CYP2D6 and weak CYP3A inhibitor. CYP3A inhibitors may increase tramadol-related adverse effects while CYP2D6 inhibitors may reduce efficacy.
Ceritinib: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and ceritinib may increase mavorixafor exposure and the risk for mavorixafor-related adverse effects, including QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Decrease the mavorixafor dose to 200 mg PO once daily and consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate, ceritinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Cevimeline: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in cevimeline-related adverse effects if concomitant use of mavorixafor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase cevimeline exposure. Cevimeline is a CYP2D6 substrate; mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Chloramphenicol: (Major) Decrease the mavorixafor dose to 200 mg PO once daily and monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use with chloramphenicol is necessary. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure and the risk for mavorixafor-related adverse effects. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate and chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tricyclic antidepressant (TCA)-related adverse reactions if coadministration with mavorixafor is necessary; a dose reduction of TCA may be necessary. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of TCAs which are CYP2D6 substrates; mavorixafor is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Chloroquine: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and chloroquine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in chlorpheniramine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with mavorixafor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase chlorpheniramine concentrations. Chlorpheniramine is a CYP2D6 substrate and mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with mavorixafor may alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal or prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage adjustment of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of mavorixafor could alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as prolonged opioid adverse reactions or decreased opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If mavorixafor is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider adjusting the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); mavorixafor is a dual strong CYP2D6 and weak CYP3A inhibitor. CYP3A inhibitors may increase codeine-related adverse effects while CYP2D6 inhibitors may reduce efficacy. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in chlorpheniramine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with mavorixafor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase chlorpheniramine concentrations. Chlorpheniramine is a CYP2D6 substrate and mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in chlorpheniramine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with mavorixafor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase chlorpheniramine concentrations. Chlorpheniramine is a CYP2D6 substrate and mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as dizziness or drowsiness, if concomitant use of mavorixafor is necessary. For patients receiving combination dextromethorphan; bupropion, do not exceed a maximum dose of 45 mg dextromethorphan; 105 mg bupropion once daily. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure and side effects. Dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate and mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use increased dextromethorphan overall exposure by 9-fold.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in chlorpheniramine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with mavorixafor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase chlorpheniramine concentrations. Chlorpheniramine is a CYP2D6 substrate and mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as dizziness or drowsiness, if concomitant use of mavorixafor is necessary. For patients receiving combination dextromethorphan; bupropion, do not exceed a maximum dose of 45 mg dextromethorphan; 105 mg bupropion once daily. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure and side effects. Dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate and mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use increased dextromethorphan overall exposure by 9-fold.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in chlorpheniramine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with mavorixafor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase chlorpheniramine concentrations. Chlorpheniramine is a CYP2D6 substrate and mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as dizziness or drowsiness, if concomitant use of mavorixafor is necessary. For patients receiving combination dextromethorphan; bupropion, do not exceed a maximum dose of 45 mg dextromethorphan; 105 mg bupropion once daily. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure and side effects. Dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate and mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use increased dextromethorphan overall exposure by 9-fold.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of mavorixafor is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP2D6 and CYP3A inhibitors like mavorixafor can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. If mavorixafor is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in chlorpheniramine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with mavorixafor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase chlorpheniramine concentrations. Chlorpheniramine is a CYP2D6 substrate and mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in chlorpheniramine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with mavorixafor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase chlorpheniramine concentrations. Chlorpheniramine is a CYP2D6 substrate and mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in chlorpheniramine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with mavorixafor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase chlorpheniramine concentrations. Chlorpheniramine is a CYP2D6 substrate and mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in chlorpheniramine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with mavorixafor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase chlorpheniramine concentrations. Chlorpheniramine is a CYP2D6 substrate and mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
chlorproMAZINE: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and chlorpromazine may increase chlorpromazine exposure and the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Monitor for an increase in chlorpromazine-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, anticholinergic effects, orthostasis, and somnolence, and consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Chlorpromazine is a CYP2D6 substrate, mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Ciprofloxacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and ciprofloxacin may increase mavorixafor exposure and increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day and consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP, if concomitant use is necessary. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate, ciprofloxacin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Cisapride: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of mavorixafor and cisapride due to increased cisapride exposure and risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate, mavorixafor is a weak CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Citalopram: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and citalopram increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and clarithromycin may increase mavorixafor exposure and the risk for mavorixafor-related adverse effects, including QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Decrease the mavorixafor dose to 200 mg PO once daily and consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate, clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor increased mavorixafor overall exposure by 2-fold. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Clofazimine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and clofazimine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tricyclic antidepressant (TCA)-related adverse reactions if coadministration with mavorixafor is necessary; a dose reduction of TCA may be necessary. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of TCAs which are CYP2D6 substrates; mavorixafor is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and clozapine may increase the exposure of clozapine and increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider a clozapine dose reduction, monitor for adverse reactions, and consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP, if concomitant use is necessary. Clozapine is partially metabolized by CYP2D6 and CYP3A, mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 and weak CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Cobicistat: (Major) Decrease the mavorixafor dose to 200 mg PO once daily and monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use with cobicistat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure and the risk for mavorixafor-related adverse effects. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor increased mavorixafor overall exposure by 2-fold.
Cobimetinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in cobimetinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with mavorixafor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase cobimetinib exposure. In vitro, cobimetinib is a P-gp substrate; mavorixafor is a P-gp inhibitor.
Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with mavorixafor may alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal or prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage adjustment of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of mavorixafor could alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as prolonged opioid adverse reactions or decreased opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If mavorixafor is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider adjusting the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); mavorixafor is a dual strong CYP2D6 and weak CYP3A inhibitor. CYP3A inhibitors may increase codeine-related adverse effects while CYP2D6 inhibitors may reduce efficacy.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with mavorixafor may alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal or prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage adjustment of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of mavorixafor could alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as prolonged opioid adverse reactions or decreased opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If mavorixafor is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider adjusting the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); mavorixafor is a dual strong CYP2D6 and weak CYP3A inhibitor. CYP3A inhibitors may increase codeine-related adverse effects while CYP2D6 inhibitors may reduce efficacy.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with mavorixafor may alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal or prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage adjustment of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of mavorixafor could alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as prolonged opioid adverse reactions or decreased opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If mavorixafor is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider adjusting the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); mavorixafor is a dual strong CYP2D6 and weak CYP3A inhibitor. CYP3A inhibitors may increase codeine-related adverse effects while CYP2D6 inhibitors may reduce efficacy.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with mavorixafor may alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal or prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage adjustment of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of mavorixafor could alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as prolonged opioid adverse reactions or decreased opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If mavorixafor is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider adjusting the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); mavorixafor is a dual strong CYP2D6 and weak CYP3A inhibitor. CYP3A inhibitors may increase codeine-related adverse effects while CYP2D6 inhibitors may reduce efficacy.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with mavorixafor may alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal or prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage adjustment of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of mavorixafor could alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as prolonged opioid adverse reactions or decreased opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If mavorixafor is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider adjusting the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); mavorixafor is a dual strong CYP2D6 and weak CYP3A inhibitor. CYP3A inhibitors may increase codeine-related adverse effects while CYP2D6 inhibitors may reduce efficacy. (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and promethazine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with mavorixafor may alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal or prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage adjustment of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of mavorixafor could alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as prolonged opioid adverse reactions or decreased opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If mavorixafor is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider adjusting the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); mavorixafor is a dual strong CYP2D6 and weak CYP3A inhibitor. CYP3A inhibitors may increase codeine-related adverse effects while CYP2D6 inhibitors may reduce efficacy. (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and promethazine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Colchicine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of colchicine and mavorixafor due to the risk for increased colchicine exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Additionally, this combination is contraindicated if colchicine is being used for cardiovascular risk reduction. If concomitant use is necessary outside of these scenarios, consider a colchicine dosage reduction. Specific dosage reduction recommendations are available for colchicine tablets for some indications; it is unclear if these dosage recommendations are appropriate for other products or indications. For colchicine tablets being used for gout prophylaxis, reduce the dose from 0.6 mg twice daily to 0.3 mg once daily or from 0.6 mg once daily to 0.3 mg once every other day. For colchicine tablets being used for gout treatment, reduce the dose from 1.2 mg followed by 0.6 mg to 0.6 mg without an additional dose. For colchicine tablets being used for Familial Mediterranean Fever, the maximum daily dose is 0.6 mg. Colchicine is a P-gp substrate and mavorixafor is a P-gp inhibitor.
Conivaptan: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with conivaptan. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and conivaptan is a moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Crizotinib: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and crizotinib may increase mavorixafor exposure and the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day and consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate, crizotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Closely monitor cyclosporine whole blood trough concentrations as appropriate and monitor for adverse effects from both drugs if coadministration with mavorixafor is necessary. Reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use. Concomitant use may increase the exposure of both drugs. Both drugs are CYP3A and P-gp substrates; mavorixafor is a P-gp and weak CYP3A inhibitor and cyclosporine is a P-gp and moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Dabigatran: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dabigatran-related adverse reactions if coadministration with mavorixafor is necessary in patients with creatinine clearance (CrCl) greater than 50 mL/minute. Avoid coadministration in patients with CrCl less than 50 mL/minute when dabigatran is administered for treatment or reduction in risk of recurrence of deep venous thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism (PE) or prophylaxis of DVT or PE following hip replacement surgery. Avoid coadministration in patients with CrCl less than 30 mL/minute in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation. Serum concentrations of dabigatran are expected to be higher in patients with renal impairment compared to patients with normal renal function. Dabigatran is a P-gp substrate and mavorixafor is a P-gp inhibitor.
Danicopan: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with danicopan. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and danicopan is a P-gp inhibitor.
Dapagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for glycemic control and adjust the dose of metformin as necessary during concomitant use of mavorixafor. Concomitant use has been observed to decrease metformin overall exposure by 35% which may reduce its efficacy.
Daridorexant: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with daridorexant. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and daridorexant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Darunavir: (Major) Decrease the mavorixafor dose to 200 mg PO once daily and monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use with darunavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure and the risk for mavorixafor-related adverse effects. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Decrease the mavorixafor dose to 200 mg PO once daily and monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use with cobicistat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure and the risk for mavorixafor-related adverse effects. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor increased mavorixafor overall exposure by 2-fold. (Major) Decrease the mavorixafor dose to 200 mg PO once daily and monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use with darunavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure and the risk for mavorixafor-related adverse effects. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Decrease the mavorixafor dose to 200 mg PO once daily and monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use with cobicistat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure and the risk for mavorixafor-related adverse effects. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor increased mavorixafor overall exposure by 2-fold. (Major) Decrease the mavorixafor dose to 200 mg PO once daily and monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use with darunavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure and the risk for mavorixafor-related adverse effects. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with mavorixafor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and mavorixafor is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Dasatinib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and dasatinib may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Degarelix: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Desflurane: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Desipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tricyclic antidepressant (TCA)-related adverse reactions if coadministration with mavorixafor is necessary; a dose reduction of TCA may be necessary. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of TCAs which are CYP2D6 substrates; mavorixafor is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Deutetrabenazine: (Major) Do not exceed 36 mg/day of deutetrabenazine if concomitant use with mavorixafor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure to the active dihydro-metabolites of deutetrabenazine, alpha- and beta-HTBZ, resulting in an increase in deutetrabenazine-related adverse effects, such as drowsiness. The deutetrabenazine dihydro-metabolites are CYP2D6 substrates and mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased overall exposure to the deutetrabenazine dihydro-metabolites by approximately 3-fold.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as dizziness or drowsiness, if concomitant use of mavorixafor is necessary. For patients receiving combination dextromethorphan; bupropion, do not exceed a maximum dose of 45 mg dextromethorphan; 105 mg bupropion once daily. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure and side effects. Dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate and mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use increased dextromethorphan overall exposure by 9-fold.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as dizziness or drowsiness, if concomitant use of mavorixafor is necessary. For patients receiving combination dextromethorphan; bupropion, do not exceed a maximum dose of 45 mg dextromethorphan; 105 mg bupropion once daily. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure and side effects. Dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate and mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use increased dextromethorphan overall exposure by 9-fold.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and dexmedetomidine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as dizziness or drowsiness, if concomitant use of mavorixafor is necessary. For patients receiving combination dextromethorphan; bupropion, do not exceed a maximum dose of 45 mg dextromethorphan; 105 mg bupropion once daily. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure and side effects. Dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate and mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use increased dextromethorphan overall exposure by 9-fold.
Dextromethorphan; buPROPion: (Moderate) Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as dizziness or drowsiness, if concomitant use of mavorixafor is necessary. For patients receiving combination dextromethorphan; bupropion, do not exceed a maximum dose of 45 mg dextromethorphan; 105 mg bupropion once daily. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure and side effects. Dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate and mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use increased dextromethorphan overall exposure by 9-fold.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as dizziness or drowsiness, if concomitant use of mavorixafor is necessary. For patients receiving combination dextromethorphan; bupropion, do not exceed a maximum dose of 45 mg dextromethorphan; 105 mg bupropion once daily. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure and side effects. Dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate and mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use increased dextromethorphan overall exposure by 9-fold.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as dizziness or drowsiness, if concomitant use of mavorixafor is necessary. For patients receiving combination dextromethorphan; bupropion, do not exceed a maximum dose of 45 mg dextromethorphan; 105 mg bupropion once daily. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure and side effects. Dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate and mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use increased dextromethorphan overall exposure by 9-fold.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as dizziness or drowsiness, if concomitant use of mavorixafor is necessary. For patients receiving combination dextromethorphan; bupropion, do not exceed a maximum dose of 45 mg dextromethorphan; 105 mg bupropion once daily. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure and side effects. Dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate and mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use increased dextromethorphan overall exposure by 9-fold.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as dizziness or drowsiness, if concomitant use of mavorixafor is necessary. For patients receiving combination dextromethorphan; bupropion, do not exceed a maximum dose of 45 mg dextromethorphan; 105 mg bupropion once daily. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure and side effects. Dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate and mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use increased dextromethorphan overall exposure by 9-fold.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and quinidine may increase mavorixafor exposure and the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day and consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate, quinidine is a P-gp inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose. (Moderate) Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as dizziness or drowsiness, if concomitant use of mavorixafor is necessary. For patients receiving combination dextromethorphan; bupropion, do not exceed a maximum dose of 45 mg dextromethorphan; 105 mg bupropion once daily. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure and side effects. Dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate and mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use increased dextromethorphan overall exposure by 9-fold.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in diazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with mavorixafor is necessary. Concurrent use may increase diazepam exposure. Diazepam is a CYP3A substrate and mavorixafor is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Digoxin: (Moderate) Increase monitoring of serum digoxin concentrations and watch for potential signs and symptoms of clinical toxicity when starting, adjusting, or discontinuing mavorixafor. Concurrent use may increase digoxin exposure. Digoxin is a P-gp substrate with a narrow therapeutic index and mavorixafor is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use increased digoxin overall exposure by 1.6-fold.
dilTIAZem: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with diltiazem. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate and diltiazem is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Disopyramide: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and disopyramide may increase disopyramide exposure and the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Monitor for an increase in disopyramide-related adverse reactions and consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Disopyramide is a CYP3A substrate, mavorixafor is a weak CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Although specific drug interaction studies have not been done for disopyramide, cases of life-threatening interactions have been reported when disopyramide was coadministered with moderate and strong CYP3A inhibitors. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Dofetilide: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and dofetilide may increase dofetilide exposure and the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions and consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Dofetilide is a CYP3A substrate, mavorixafor is a weak CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Dolutegravir: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with mavorixafor. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp substrate and mavorixafor is a P-gp inhibitor.
Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with mavorixafor. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp substrate and mavorixafor is a P-gp inhibitor.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and rilpivirine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose. (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with mavorixafor. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp substrate and mavorixafor is a P-gp inhibitor.
Donepezil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and donepezil may increase donepezil exposure and the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Monitor for adverse effects, such as gastrointestinal or cholinergic adverse effects, and consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Donepezil is a CYP2D6 substrate, mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and donepezil may increase donepezil exposure and the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Monitor for adverse effects, such as gastrointestinal or cholinergic adverse effects, and consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Donepezil is a CYP2D6 substrate, mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with mavorixafor may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and mavorixafor is a P-gp inhibitor.
Dordaviprone: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and mavorixafor increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of bradycardia or heart block if coadministration of timolol with mavorixafor is necessary. Concomitant use may enhance the beta-blocking properties of timolol resulting in further slowing of the heart rate or cardiac conduction. Timolol is a CYP2D6 substrate and mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Doxepin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tricyclic antidepressant (TCA)-related adverse reactions if coadministration with mavorixafor is necessary; a dose reduction of TCA may be necessary. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of TCAs which are CYP2D6 substrates; mavorixafor is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
DOXOrubicin Liposomal: (Major) Avoid coadministration of doxorubicin with mavorixafor due to increased systemic exposure of doxorubicin resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions. Doxorubicin is a CYP2D6 and P-gp substrate and mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 and P-gp inhibitor. Concurrent use of CYP2D6 and P-gp inhibitors with doxorubicin has resulted in clinically significant interactions.
DOXOrubicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of doxorubicin with mavorixafor due to increased systemic exposure of doxorubicin resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions. Doxorubicin is a CYP2D6 and P-gp substrate and mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 and P-gp inhibitor. Concurrent use of CYP2D6 and P-gp inhibitors with doxorubicin has resulted in clinically significant interactions.
Dronedarone: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of mavorixafor and dronedarone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase mavorixafor exposure and the risk for mavorixafor-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate, dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
droPERidol: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and droperidol increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased duloxetine-related adverse effects if coadministered with mavorixafor. Concurrent use may result in increased duloxetine exposure. Duloxetine is a CYP2D6 substrate and mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased the duloxetine AUC by about 60%.
Dutasteride; Tamsulosin: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of mavorixafor with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 substrate and mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant treatment with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 1.3 and 1.6, respectively.
Duvelisib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with duvelisib. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate and duvelisib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Edoxaban: (Major) Consider an edoxaban dosage reduction for patients being treated for deep venous thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism (PE) if concomitant use of mavorixafor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase edoxaban exposure; edoxaban is a P-gp substrate and mavorixafor is a P-gp inhibitor. An edoxaban dose reduction to 30 mg PO once daily is recommended by the manufacturer for use with certain P-gp inhibitors; however, because use of concomitant P-gp inhibitors was limited to only certain drugs that inhibit P-gp in DVT/PE clinical trials, clinicians should use professional judgment and guide edoxaban dose adjustments based on patient response if coadministered with mavorixafor. Based on clinical experience in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation no dose reduction is recommended for concomitant use of mavorixafor. Increased concentrations of edoxaban may occur during concomitant use of mavorixafor; monitor for increased adverse effects of edoxaban.
Efavirenz: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and efavirenz may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with mavorixafor may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and mavorixafor is a P-gp inhibitor. (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and efavirenz may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with mavorixafor may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and mavorixafor is a P-gp inhibitor. (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and efavirenz may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Elacestrant: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with elacestrant. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and elacestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Elagolix: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with elagolix. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and elagolix is a P-gp inhibitor.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with elagolix. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and elagolix is a P-gp inhibitor.
Elexacaftor; tezacaftor; ivacaftor: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with ivacaftor. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and ivacaftor is a P-gp inhibitor.
Eliglustat: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor with eliglustat may increase the exposure of both drugs and the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Recommendations for eliglustat management vary by CYP2D6 metabolizer status and concomitant medication use; a dose adjustment of mavorixafor may also be needed. In patients who are extensive or intermediate CYP2D6 metabolizers (EMs or IMs), reduce the dose of eliglustat to 84 mg once daily. In EMs or IMs who are receiving mavorixafor plus a strong or moderate CYP3A inhibitor, eliglustat use is contraindicated. In patients who are poor CYP2D6 metabolizers (PMs), avoid coadministration. In PMs who are receiving mavorixafor plus a strong CYP3A inhibitor, eliglustat use is contraindicated. The mavorixafor dosage may be reduced, if needed based on response, by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Eliglustat is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate and P-gp inhibitor; mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and strong CYP2D6 and weak CYP3A inhibitor. A strong CYP2D6 inhibitor is predicted to increase eliglustat overall exposure by 8.4-fold and 2.3-fold in EMs and IM, respectively. Both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Decrease the mavorixafor dose to 200 mg PO once daily and monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use with cobicistat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure and the risk for mavorixafor-related adverse effects. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor increased mavorixafor overall exposure by 2-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with mavorixafor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and mavorixafor is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Decrease the mavorixafor dose to 200 mg PO once daily and monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use with cobicistat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure and the risk for mavorixafor-related adverse effects. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor increased mavorixafor overall exposure by 2-fold. (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with mavorixafor may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and mavorixafor is a P-gp inhibitor.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for glycemic control and adjust the dose of metformin as necessary during concomitant use of mavorixafor. Concomitant use has been observed to decrease metformin overall exposure by 35% which may reduce its efficacy.
Empagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for glycemic control and adjust the dose of metformin as necessary during concomitant use of mavorixafor. Concomitant use has been observed to decrease metformin overall exposure by 35% which may reduce its efficacy.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and rilpivirine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with mavorixafor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and mavorixafor is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with mavorixafor may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and mavorixafor is a P-gp inhibitor. (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and rilpivirine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with mavorixafor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and mavorixafor is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with mavorixafor may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and mavorixafor is a P-gp inhibitor.
Enasidenib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with enasidenib. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and enasidenib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mavorixafor and encorafenib due to the risk of decreased mavorixafor exposure and efficacy and increased risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) . Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate, encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Ensartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with mavorixafor due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and mavorixafor is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ensitrelvir: (Major) Decrease the mavorixafor dose to 200 mg PO once daily and monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use with ensitrelvir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure and the risk for mavorixafor-related adverse effects. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor increased mavorixafor overall exposure by 2-fold.
Entrectinib: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and entrectinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mavorixafor and enzalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease mavorixafor exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Erdafitinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with erdafitinib. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and erdafitinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
eriBULin: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Ertugliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for glycemic control and adjust the dose of metformin as necessary during concomitant use of mavorixafor. Concomitant use has been observed to decrease metformin overall exposure by 35% which may reduce its efficacy.
Erythromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and erythromycin may increase mavorixafor exposure and the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day and consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate, erythromycin is a moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Escitalopram: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and escitalopram may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Etrasimod: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and etrasimod may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Etravirine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with etravirine. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and etravirine is a P-gp inhibitor.
Everolimus: (Moderate) Monitor everolimus whole blood trough concentrations as appropriate and watch for everolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with mavorixafor is necessary. The dose of everolimus may need to be reduced. Everolimus is a P-gp substrate and mavorixafor is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with P-gp inhibitors may decrease the efflux of everolimus from intestinal cells and increase everolimus blood concentrations.
Ezetimibe; Simvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in simvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with mavorixafor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase simvastatin exposure. Simvastatin is a P-gp substrate; mavorixafor is a P-gp inhibitor.
Fedratinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with fedratinib. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate and fedratinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Felodipine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of felodipine and mavorixafor should be approached with caution and conservative dosing of felodipine due to the potential for significant increases in felodipine exposure. Monitor for evidence of increased felodipine effects including decreased blood pressure and increased heart rate. Felodipine is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and mavorixafor is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concurrent use of another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased felodipine AUC and Cmax by approximately 50%.
Fenfluramine: (Major) Do not exceed a maximum dose of fenfluramine 20 mg per day if coadministered with mavorixafor; for patients also receiving stiripentol plus clobazam, do not exceed a maximum dose of fenfluramine 17 mg per day. Concomitant use may increase fenfluramine plasma concentrations and the risk of adverse reactions. Fenfluramine is a CYP2D6 substrate and mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased fenfluramine overall exposure by 81% and decreased norfenfluramine overall exposure by 13%.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of fentanyl with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of mavorixafor is necessary. If mavorixafor is discontinued, consider increasing the fentanyl dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Fentanyl is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like mavorixafor can increase fentanyl exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of fentanyl. If mavorixafor is discontinued, fentanyl plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to fentanyl.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and fexinidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Finerenone: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium during initiation or dose adjustment of either finerenone or mavorixafor; a finerenone dosage reduction may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase finerenone exposure and the risk of hyperkalemia. Finerenone is a CYP3A substrate and mavorixafor is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased overall exposure to finerenone by 21%.
Fingolimod: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and fingolimod may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Flecainide: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and flecainide may increase flecainide exposure and the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Monitor for an increase in flecainide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, and consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Flecainide is a CYP2D6 substrate, mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Plasma concentrations of flecainide may increase, especially in extensive CYP2D6 metabolizers. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Flibanserin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both drugs if concomitant use of mavorixafor and flibanserin is necessary. Reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day. Concomitant use may increase exposure of both drugs. Flibanserin is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor and mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Fluconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of mavorixafor and fluconazole due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase mavorixafor exposure and the risk for other mavorixafor-related adverse effects. Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day if concomitant use is necessary. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate, fluconazole is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and fluoxetine may increase fluoxetine exposure and the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Monitor for increased fluoxetine-related adverse effects and consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Fluoxetine is a CYP2D6 substrate, mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
fluPHENAZine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in fluphenazine-related adverse reactions, including extrapyramidal symptoms and somnolence, if coadministration with mavorixafor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase fluphenazine exposure. QT/QTc prolongation can also occur with concomitant use, although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Fluphenazine is a CYP2D6 substrate, mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
fluvoxaMINE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor with fluvoxamine may increase the exposure of both drugs and the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both drugs, reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day, and consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP, if concomitant use is necessary. Fluvoxamine is a CYP2D6 substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor, mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP2D6 inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Fosamprenavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with fosamprenavir. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate and fosamprenavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Foscarnet: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and foscarnet increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Fosfomycin (injectable): (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and mavorixafor increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Fosfomycin: (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and mavorixafor increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mavorixafor and phenytoin/fosphenytoin. Concurrent use may decrease mavorixafor exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin/fosphenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Fostamatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with fostamatinib. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and fostamatinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Fostemsavir: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and fostemsavir may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Gefitinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with mavorixafor is necessary; the risk is increased in CYP2D6 poor metabolizers. Based on in vitro data, gefitinib is metabolized to O-desmethyl gefitinib by CYP2D6 and mavorixafor is a CYP2D6 inhibitor. In healthy CYP2D6 poor metabolizers, the concentration of O-desmethyl gefitinib was not measurable and mean exposure to gefitinib was 2-fold higher compared to extensive metabolizers. The impact of CYP2D6 inhibitors on gefitinib pharmacokinetics has not been evaluated; however, the manufacturer recommends precautions based on exposure in patients with poor CYP2D6 metabolism.
Gemifloxacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and gemifloxacin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Gemtuzumab Ozogamicin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and gemtuzumab ozogamicin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Gepirone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and gepirone may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Gepotidacin: (Major) Concomitant use of gepotidacin and mavorixafor increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Gilteritinib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and gilteritinib may increase mavorixafor exposure and increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day and consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP, if concomitant use is necessary. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate, gilteritinib is a P-gp inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Givinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of givinostat and mavorixafor increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose. The degree of QT prolongation associated with givinostat is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 5 times the maximum recommended dose.
Glasdegib: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and glasdegib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Glecaprevir; Pibrentasvir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both drugs if concomitant use of mavorixafor and glecaprevir is necessary. Reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day. Concomitant use may increase the exposure of both drugs. Both drugs are P-gp substrates and inhibitors. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both drugs if concomitant use of mavorixafor and pibrentasvir is necessary. Reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day. Concomitant use may increase exposure of both drugs. Both drugs are P-gp substrates and inhibitors.
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for glycemic control and adjust the dose of metformin as necessary during concomitant use of mavorixafor. Concomitant use has been observed to decrease metformin overall exposure by 35% which may reduce its efficacy.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for glycemic control and adjust the dose of metformin as necessary during concomitant use of mavorixafor. Concomitant use has been observed to decrease metformin overall exposure by 35% which may reduce its efficacy.
Goserelin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., goserelin) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Granisetron: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and granisetron may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Grapefruit juice: (Major) Advise patients to avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice during mavorixafor treatment due to the risk of increased mavorixafor exposure and adverse reactions. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and grapefruit juice is a CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Halogenated Anesthetics: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Haloperidol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and haloperidol may increase haloperidol exposure and the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Monitor for increased haloperidol-associated adverse reactions, such as QT prolongation and extrapyramidal symptoms, and consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Haloperidol is a CYP2D6 substrate, mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Histrelin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., histrelin) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of mavorixafor is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP2D6 and CYP3A inhibitors like mavorixafor can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. If mavorixafor is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of mavorixafor is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP2D6 and CYP3A inhibitors like mavorixafor can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. If mavorixafor is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of mavorixafor is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP2D6 and CYP3A inhibitors like mavorixafor can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. If mavorixafor is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Hydroxychloroquine: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and hydroxychloroquine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
hydrOXYzine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and hydroxyzine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Ibrutinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with ibrutinib. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and ibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ibutilide: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and ibutilide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Idelalisib: (Major) Decrease the mavorixafor dose to 200 mg PO once daily and monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use with idelalisib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure and the risk for mavorixafor-related adverse effects. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate and idelalisib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Iloperidone: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and iloperidone may increase iloperidone exposure and the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Reduce the iloperidone dose by one-half and consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Iloperidone is a CYP2D6 substrate, mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration of other strong CYP2D6 inhibitors increased mean steady-state peak concentrations of iloperidone and its metabolite P88, by up to 3-fold, and decreased mean steady-state peak concentrations of its metabolite P95 by one-half. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Imatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with imatinib. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate and imatinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Imipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tricyclic antidepressant (TCA)-related adverse reactions if coadministration with mavorixafor is necessary; a dose reduction of TCA may be necessary. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of TCAs which are CYP2D6 substrates; mavorixafor is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Imlunestrant: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with imlunestrant. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and imlunestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Inotuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and inotuzumab ozogamicin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Isavuconazonium: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with isavuconazonium. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and isavuconazonium is a moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Isoflurane: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Isradipine: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in isradipine-related adverse reactions including hypotension if coadministration with mavorixafor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase isradipine exposure. Isradipine is a CYP3A substrate and mavorixafor is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Istradefylline: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with istradefylline. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and istradefylline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Itraconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of mavorixafor and itraconazole due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase mavorixafor exposure and the risk for other mavorixafor-related adverse effects. Decrease the mavorixafor dose to 200 mg PO once daily if concomitant use is necessary. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate, itraconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with ivacaftor. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and ivacaftor is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ivosidenib: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and ivosidenib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Ixabepilone: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of mavorixafor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and mavorixafor is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Ketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of mavorixafor and ketoconazole due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase mavorixafor exposure and the risk for other mavorixafor-related adverse effects. Decrease the mavorixafor dose to 200 mg PO once daily if concomitant use is necessary. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate, ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with mavorixafor may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and mavorixafor is a P-gp inhibitor.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and clarithromycin may increase mavorixafor exposure and the risk for mavorixafor-related adverse effects, including QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Decrease the mavorixafor dose to 200 mg PO once daily and consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate, clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor increased mavorixafor overall exposure by 2-fold. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Lapatinib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor with lapatinib may increase the exposure of both drugs and the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both drugs, reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day, and consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP, if concomitant use is necessary. Lapatinib is a P-gp substrate and inhibitor, mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Lasmiditan: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with lasmiditan. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and lasmiditan is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ledipasvir; Sofosbuvir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with ledipasvir. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and ledipasvir is a P-gp inhibitor.
Lefamulin: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of mavorixafor and lefamulin due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of mavorixafor and oral lefamulin and the risk for other adverse effects. Reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day if concomitant use is necessary. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor, oral lefamulin is a P-gp substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Lemborexant: (Major) Limit the dose of lemborexant to 5 mg PO once daily if coadministered with mavorixafor as concomitant use may increase lemborexant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Lemborexant is a CYP3A substrate; mavorixafor is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a weak CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase lemborexant exposure by less than 2-fold.
Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with lenacapavir. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Lenvatinib: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and lenvatinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Letermovir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with letermovir. Decrease the mavorixafor dose to 200 mg PO once daily in patients receiving letermovir with concomitant cyclosporine. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate, letermovir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and combination letermovir plus cyclosporine is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Leuprolide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., leuprolide) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Levacetylleucine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with levacetylleucine. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and levacetylleucine is a P-gp inhibitor.
levoFLOXacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and levofloxacin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Levoketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of mavorixafor and ketoconazole due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase mavorixafor exposure and the risk for other mavorixafor-related adverse effects. Decrease the mavorixafor dose to 200 mg PO once daily if concomitant use is necessary. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate, ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Lidocaine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with mavorixafor is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP3A substrate and mavorixafor is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with mavorixafor is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP3A substrate and mavorixafor is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Lidocaine; Prilocaine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with mavorixafor is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP3A substrate and mavorixafor is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for glycemic control and adjust the dose of metformin as necessary during concomitant use of mavorixafor. Concomitant use has been observed to decrease metformin overall exposure by 35% which may reduce its efficacy.
Lithium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and lithium may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Lofexidine: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and lofexidine may increase lofexidine exposure and the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Monitor for orthostatic hypotension and bradycardia, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Lofexidine is a CYP2D6 substrate, mavorixafor is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased the lofexidine AUC by 28%. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Lomitapide: (Major) Decrease the dose of lomitapide by one-half (not to exceed 30 mg/day PO) and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day if concomitant use is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the exposure of both drugs. Lomitapide is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor and mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and weak CYP3A inhibitor. The exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of other weak CYP3A inhibitors.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lonafarnib and mavorixafor. Concomitant use is expected to increase the concentrations of both medications and the risk for adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the dose of both medications: reduce the lonafarnib dosage to 115 mg/m2, reduce the mavorixafor dosage to 200 mg PO once daily. Lonafarnib is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor and mavorixafor is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor increased mavorixafor overall exposure by 2-fold.
Loperamide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and loperamide may increase loperamide exposure and the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Monitor for increased loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest) and consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate, mavorixafor is a P-gp inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and loperamide may increase loperamide exposure and the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Monitor for increased loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest) and consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate, mavorixafor is a P-gp inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of mavorixafor and lopinavir; ritonavir due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase mavorixafor exposure and the risk for other mavorixafor-related adverse effects. Decrease the mavorixafor dose to 200 mg PO once daily if concomitant use is necessary. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate, lopinavir; ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose. (Major) Decrease the mavorixafor dose to 200 mg PO once daily and monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use with ritonavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure and the risk for mavorixafor-related adverse effects. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor increased mavorixafor overall exposure by 2-fold.
Lovastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in lovastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with mavorixafor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase lovastatin exposure. Lovastatin is a P-gp substrate; mavorixafor is a P-gp inhibitor.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mavorixafor and lumacaftor; ivacaftor due to the risk of altered mavorixafor exposure. Concomitant use may decrease mavorixafor exposure which may reduce its efficacy or increase mavorixafor exposure leading to increased adverse effects. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer and P-gp inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with ivacaftor. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and ivacaftor is a P-gp inhibitor.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mavorixafor and lumacaftor; ivacaftor due to the risk of altered mavorixafor exposure. Concomitant use may decrease mavorixafor exposure which may reduce its efficacy or increase mavorixafor exposure leading to increased adverse effects. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer and P-gp inhibitor.
Macimorelin: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and macimorelin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Maraviroc: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in maraviroc-related adverse reactions if coadministration with mavorixafor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase maraviroc exposure. Maraviroc is a P-gp substrate; mavorixafor is a P-gp inhibitor.
Maribavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with maribavir. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and maribavir is a P-gp inhibitor.
Meclizine: (Moderate) Monitor for meclizine-related adverse effects, such as drowsiness and anticholinergic effects, when coadministered with mavorixafor. Concomitant use may increase the exposure to meclizine. Meclizine is a CYP2D6 substrate and mavorixafor is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Mefloquine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor with mefloquine may increase the exposure of both drugs and the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both drugs, reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day, and consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP, if concomitant use is necessary. Mefloquine is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and P-gp inhibitor, mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and P-gp and weak CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of meperidine with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of mavorixafor is necessary. If mavorixafor is discontinued, meperidine plasma concentrations can decrease resulting in reduced efficacy and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to meperidine. Meperidine is a substrate of CYP3A and mavorixafor is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with mavorixafor can increase meperidine exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of meperidine.
metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for glycemic control and adjust the dose of metformin as necessary during concomitant use of mavorixafor. Concomitant use has been observed to decrease metformin overall exposure by 35% which may reduce its efficacy.
metFORMIN; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor for glycemic control and adjust the dose of metformin as necessary during concomitant use of mavorixafor. Concomitant use has been observed to decrease metformin overall exposure by 35% which may reduce its efficacy.
metFORMIN; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor for glycemic control and adjust the dose of metformin as necessary during concomitant use of mavorixafor. Concomitant use has been observed to decrease metformin overall exposure by 35% which may reduce its efficacy.
Methadone: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and methadone can increase methadone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects, including fatal respiratory depression, and increased risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider a reduced dose of methadone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. If mavorixafor is discontinued, methadone plasma concentrations can decrease resulting in reduced efficacy and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to methadone. Methadone is a substrate of CYP3A, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, and CYP2D6, mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 and weak CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Methohexital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mavorixafor and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease mavorixafor exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Methylergonovine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and mavorixafor. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and mavorixafor is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Metoclopramide: (Moderate) Dose reductions of oral metoclopramide are recommended when administered in combination with mavorixafor due to likely increased metoclopramide exposure and an increased risk of extrapyramidal adverse reactions. In patients with gastroesophageal reflux, the recommended dose of metoclopramide is 5 mg PO four times daily or 10 mg PO three times daily when coadministered with mavorixafor. In patients with diabetic gastroparesis, the recommended dose of metoclopramide is 5 mg PO four times daily. Metoclopramide is a substrate of CYP2D6 and mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased the metoclopramide AUC by 90%.
Metoprolol: (Moderate) Monitor for metoprolol-related adverse reactions, including bradycardia and hypotension, during coadministration with mavorixafor. Concomitant use may increase metoprolol serum concentrations which would decrease the cardioselectivity of metoprolol. Metoprolol is a CYP2D6 substrate and mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Coadministration with strong CYP2D6 inhibitors has been shown to double metoprolol concentrations.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for metoprolol-related adverse reactions, including bradycardia and hypotension, during coadministration with mavorixafor. Concomitant use may increase metoprolol serum concentrations which would decrease the cardioselectivity of metoprolol. Metoprolol is a CYP2D6 substrate and mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Coadministration with strong CYP2D6 inhibitors has been shown to double metoprolol concentrations.
metroNIDAZOLE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and metronidazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Mexiletine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased mexiletine toxicity if coadministered with mavorixafor. Coadministration may increase serum concentrations of mexiletine. Mexiletine is a CYP2D6 substrate and mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Midazolam: (Moderate) Use caution when midazolam is coadministered with mavorixafor. Concurrent use may increase midazolam exposure leading to prolonged sedation. Midazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and mavorixafor is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use increased midazolam overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Midostaurin: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and midostaurin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and mifepristone may increase mavorixafor exposure and the risk for mavorixafor-related adverse effects, including QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Decrease the mavorixafor dose to 200 mg PO once daily and consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate, mifepristone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Mirtazapine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and mirtazapine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Mitapivat: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with mitapivat. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and mitapivat is a P-gp inhibitor.
Mitotane: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mavorixafor and mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease mavorixafor exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Mobocertinib: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and mobocertinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Morphine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in morphine-related adverse reactions, including hypotension, sedation, and respiratory depression, if coadministration with mavorixafor is necessary; decrease the dose of morphine as necessary. Morphine is a P-gp substrate and mavorixafor is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with P-gp inhibitors can increase morphine exposure by about 2-fold.
Moxifloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and moxifloxacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Naldemedine: (Moderate) Monitor for naldemedine-related adverse reactions if coadministered with mavorixafor. Naldemedine plasma concentrations may increase during concomitant use. Naldemedine is a P-gp substrate; mavorixafor is a P-gp inhibitor.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound Sirolimus: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sirolimus and mavorixafor. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and increase the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and mavorixafor is a weak CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Nebivolol: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of nebivolol and mavorixafor. Concomitant use may increase the exposure of nebivolol and the risk of adverse effects. Nebivolol is a CYP2D6 substrate and mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor caused an 8-fold increase in the AUC of d-nebivolol.
Nefazodone: (Major) Decrease the mavorixafor dose to 200 mg PO once daily and monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use with nefazodone is necessary. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure and the risk for mavorixafor-related adverse effects. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate and nefazodone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Nelfinavir: (Major) Decrease the mavorixafor dose to 200 mg PO once daily and monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use with nelfinavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure and the risk for mavorixafor-related adverse effects. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and nelfinavir is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor increased mavorixafor overall exposure by 2-fold.
Neratinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with neratinib. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and neratinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Netupitant, Fosnetupitant; Palonosetron: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with netupitant. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate and netupitant is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Nilotinib: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and nilotinib may increase mavorixafor exposure and the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day and consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate, nilotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
niMODipine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with mavorixafor is necessary. Concurrent use may increase nimodipine exposure. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and mavorixafor is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Nintedanib: (Moderate) Monitor for nintedanib-related adverse reactions if concomitant use of mavorixafor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase nintedanib exposure. Nintedanib is a P-gp substrate, and a minor substrate of CYP3A and mavorixafor is a dual P-gp and CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another dual P-gp and CYP3A inhibitor increased nintedanib AUC by 60%.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Decrease the mavorixafor dose to 200 mg PO once daily and monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use with ritonavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure and the risk for mavorixafor-related adverse effects. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor increased mavorixafor overall exposure by 2-fold.
Nirogacestat: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with nirogacestat. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate and nirogacestat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Nisoldipine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nisoldipine with mavorixafor due to increased plasma concentrations of nisoldipine. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor blood pressure closely during concurrent use of these medications. Nisoldipine is a CYP3A substrate and mavorixafor is a CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another CYP3A inhibitor increased the AUC of nisoldipine by 30% to 45%.
Nortriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tricyclic antidepressant (TCA)-related adverse reactions if coadministration with mavorixafor is necessary; a dose reduction of TCA may be necessary. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of TCAs which are CYP2D6 substrates; mavorixafor is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Ofloxacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and ofloxacin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and olanzapine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and fluoxetine may increase fluoxetine exposure and the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Monitor for increased fluoxetine-related adverse effects and consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Fluoxetine is a CYP2D6 substrate, mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose. (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and olanzapine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and olanzapine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Oliceridine: (Moderate) Monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals and base subsequent doses on the patient's severity of pain and response to treatment if concomitant administration of oliceridine and mavorixafor is necessary; less frequent dosing of oliceridine may be required. Concomitant use of oliceridine and mavorixafor may increase the plasma concentration of oliceridine, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects. If mavorixafor is discontinued, consider increasing the oliceridine dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oliceridine is a CYP2D6 substrate and mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Ondansetron: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and ondansetron increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Do not exceed 16 mg of IV ondansetron in a single dose; the degree of QT prolongation associated with ondansetron significantly increases above this dose. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Osilodrostat: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and osilodrostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Osimertinib: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and osimertinib may increase mavorixafor exposure and the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day and consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate, osimertinib is a P-gp inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Oxaliplatin: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and oxaliplatin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of mavorixafor is necessary. If mavorixafor is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with weak CYP3A inhibitors like mavorixafor can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If mavorixafor is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Ozanimod: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and ozanimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ozanimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Pacritinib: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and pacritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase mavorixafor exposure and the risk for other adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day and consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate, pacritinib is a P-gp inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Paliperidone: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and paliperidone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Panobinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and panobinostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
PARoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in paroxetine-related adverse reactions, including serotonin syndrome, if concomitant use with mavorixafor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase paroxetine exposure. Paroxetine is a CYP2D6 substrate and mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Pasireotide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and pasireotide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of pazopanib and mavorixafor due to the potential for increased pazopanib exposure. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Pazopanib is a P-gp substrate, mavorixafor is a P-gp inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Pentamidine: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and systemic pentamidine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
PENTobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mavorixafor and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease mavorixafor exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Perphenazine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in perphenazine-related adverse reactions, including extrapyramidal symptoms and somnolence, if coadministration with mavorixafor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase perphenazine exposure. QT/QTc prolongation can also occur with concomitant use, although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Perphenazine is a CYP2D6 substrate, mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in perphenazine-related adverse reactions, including extrapyramidal symptoms and somnolence, if coadministration with mavorixafor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase perphenazine exposure. QT/QTc prolongation can also occur with concomitant use, although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Perphenazine is a CYP2D6 substrate, mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tricyclic antidepressant (TCA)-related adverse reactions if coadministration with mavorixafor is necessary; a dose reduction of TCA may be necessary. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of TCAs which are CYP2D6 substrates; mavorixafor is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mavorixafor and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease mavorixafor exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mavorixafor and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease mavorixafor exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Phenytoin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mavorixafor and phenytoin/fosphenytoin. Concurrent use may decrease mavorixafor exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin/fosphenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Pimavanserin: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and pimavanserin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Pimozide: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of pimozide and mavorixafor is contraindicated due to the risk of elevated pimozide concentrations and increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP), QT/QTc prolongation, and sudden death. Pimozide is CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate, mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 and weak CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased pimozide exposure by 151%. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Pioglitazone; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for glycemic control and adjust the dose of metformin as necessary during concomitant use of mavorixafor. Concomitant use has been observed to decrease metformin overall exposure by 35% which may reduce its efficacy.
Pirtobrutinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with pirtobrutinib. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and pirtobrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Pitavastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in pitavastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with mavorixafor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase pitavastatin exposure. Pitavastatin is a P-gp substrate; mavorixafor is a P-gp inhibitor.
Pitolisant: (Major) Concomitant use of pitolisant and mavorixafor increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase pitolisant exposure and the risk for other adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the pitolisant dosage by half for patients on a stable dose of pitolisant. For patients starting pitolisant, reduce the maximum recommended dosage by half to 17.8 mg once daily for adults and patients 6 years and older weighing 40 kg or more or 8.9 mg once daily for patients 6 years and older weighing less than 40 kg. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Pitolisant is a CYP2D6 substrate, mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased pitolisant overall exposure by 2.2-fold. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Ponesimod: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and ponesimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ponesimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Posaconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of mavorixafor and posaconazole due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of both drugs and the risk for other adverse effects. Decrease the mavorixafor dose to 200 mg PO once daily if concomitant use is necessary. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and P-gp inhibitor, posaconazole is a P-gp substrate and strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor increased mavorixafor overall exposure by 2-fold. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Pralsetinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mavorixafor with pralsetinib due to the risk of increased pralsetinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the daily dose of pralsetinib by 100 mg. Pralsetinib is a P-gp substrate and mavorixafor is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased the overall exposure of pralsetinib by 1.8-fold.
Pretomanid: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with pretomanid. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and pretomanid is a P-gp inhibitor.
Primaquine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of primaquine and mavorixafor as use may decrease the conversion of primaquine to its active metabolites which may reduce primaquine efficacy. Concomitant use may also increase mavorixafor exposure and the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Primaquine is converted to active metabolites by CYP2D6 and is a P-gp inhibitor; mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Primidone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mavorixafor and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease mavorixafor exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Probenecid; Colchicine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of colchicine and mavorixafor due to the risk for increased colchicine exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Additionally, this combination is contraindicated if colchicine is being used for cardiovascular risk reduction. If concomitant use is necessary outside of these scenarios, consider a colchicine dosage reduction. Specific dosage reduction recommendations are available for colchicine tablets for some indications; it is unclear if these dosage recommendations are appropriate for other products or indications. For colchicine tablets being used for gout prophylaxis, reduce the dose from 0.6 mg twice daily to 0.3 mg once daily or from 0.6 mg once daily to 0.3 mg once every other day. For colchicine tablets being used for gout treatment, reduce the dose from 1.2 mg followed by 0.6 mg to 0.6 mg without an additional dose. For colchicine tablets being used for Familial Mediterranean Fever, the maximum daily dose is 0.6 mg. Colchicine is a P-gp substrate and mavorixafor is a P-gp inhibitor.
Procainamide: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and procainamide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Prochlorperazine: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of mavorixafor and prochlorperazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and promethazine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and promethazine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose. (Moderate) Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as dizziness or drowsiness, if concomitant use of mavorixafor is necessary. For patients receiving combination dextromethorphan; bupropion, do not exceed a maximum dose of 45 mg dextromethorphan; 105 mg bupropion once daily. Concomitant use may increase dextromethorphan exposure and side effects. Dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate and mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use increased dextromethorphan overall exposure by 9-fold.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and promethazine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Propafenone: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and propafenone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of both drugs, further increasing the risk of proarrhythmias. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day and consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Propafenone is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor, mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and strong CYP2D6 and weak CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Monitor for increased propranolol adverse reactions, including bradycardia and hypotension, during coadministration of mavorixafor as concurrent use may increase propranolol exposure. Propranolol is a CYP2D6 substrate and mavorixafor is strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Protriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tricyclic antidepressant (TCA)-related adverse reactions if coadministration with mavorixafor is necessary; a dose reduction of TCA may be necessary. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of TCAs which are CYP2D6 substrates; mavorixafor is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
QUEtiapine: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and quetiapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
quiNIDine: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and quinidine may increase mavorixafor exposure and the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day and consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate, quinidine is a P-gp inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
quiNINE: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and quinine may increase mavorixafor exposure and the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day and consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate, quinine is a P-gp inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Quizartinib: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and quizartinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Ranolazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor with ranolazine may increase the exposure of both drugs and the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both drugs and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day, if concomitant use is necessary. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and inhibitor, ranolazine is a P-gp substrate and inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Relacorilant: (Major) Decrease the mavorixafor dose to 200 mg PO once daily and monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use with relacorilant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure and the risk for mavorixafor-related adverse effects. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Relugolix: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of relugolix and mavorixafor. Concomitant use may increase relugolix exposure and the risk of relugolix-related adverse effects. Use may also increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. If concomitant use is necessary, administer mavorixafor at least 6 hours after relugolix, monitor for adverse reactions, and consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Relugolix is a P-gp substrate, mavorixafor is a P-gp inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of relugolix and mavorixafor. Concomitant use may increase relugolix exposure and the risk of relugolix-related adverse effects. Use may also increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. If concomitant use is necessary, administer mavorixafor at least 6 hours after relugolix, monitor for adverse reactions, and consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Relugolix is a P-gp substrate, mavorixafor is a P-gp inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Remibrutinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with remibrutinib. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and remibrutinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with mavorixafor due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and mavorixafor is a P-gp inhibitor.
Revumenib: (Major) Concomitant use of revumenib and mavorixafor increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Ribociclib: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and ribociclib may increase mavorixafor exposure and the risk for mavorixafor-related adverse effects. Use may also increase the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Decrease the mavorixafor dose to 200 mg PO once daily and consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate, ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and ribociclib may increase mavorixafor exposure and the risk for mavorixafor-related adverse effects. Use may also increase the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Decrease the mavorixafor dose to 200 mg PO once daily and consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate, ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mavorixafor and rifampin. Concurrent use may decrease mavorixafor exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mavorixafor and rifapentine. Concurrent use may decrease mavorixafor exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A inducer.
rifAXIMin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rifaximin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with mavorixafor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase rifaximin exposure. In patients with hepatic impairment, a potential additive effect of reduced metabolism may further increase systemic rifaximin exposure. Rifaximin is a P-gp substrate and mavorixafor is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased rifaximin overall exposure by 124-fold.
Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and rilpivirine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Rilzabrutinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with rilzabrutinib. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Rimegepant: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with mavorixafor; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and mavorixafor is a P-gp inhibitor.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and risperidone may increase risperidone exposure and the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for an increase in risperidone-associated adverse reactions and reduce the risperidone dosage as appropriate based on response. For patients receiving long-acting risperidone dosage forms, an anticipatory dosage decrease may be considered prior to initiation of mavorixafor. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Risperidone is a CYP2D6 substrate, mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with other strong CYP2D6 inhibitors increased risperidone overall exposure by 2.5- to 9-fold. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Ritlecitinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with ritlecitinib. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Ritonavir: (Major) Decrease the mavorixafor dose to 200 mg PO once daily and monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use with ritonavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure and the risk for mavorixafor-related adverse effects. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor increased mavorixafor overall exposure by 2-fold.
Rolapitant: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with rolapitant. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and rolapitant is a P-gp inhibitor.
romiDEPsin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and romidepsin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Saquinavir: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of mavorixafor and saquinavir due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of both drugs and the risk for other adverse effects. Decrease the mavorixafor dose to 200 mg PO once daily if concomitant use is necessary. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and P-gp inhibitor, saquinavir is a P-gp substrate and strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor increased mavorixafor overall exposure by 2-fold. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Sarecycline: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with sarecycline. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and sarecycline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Secobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mavorixafor and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease mavorixafor exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers.
Selpercatinib: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and selpercatinib may increase mavorixafor exposure and the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day if concomitant use is necessary. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate, selpercatinib is a P-gp inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Sertraline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and sertraline may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with sertraline is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Sevabertinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with sevabertinib. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and sevabertinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Sevoflurane: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Silodosin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of silodosin and mavorixafor due to the potential for increased silodosin exposure. In vitro data indicate that silodosin is a P-gp substrate; mavorixafor is a P-gp inhibitor.
Simvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in simvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with mavorixafor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase simvastatin exposure. Simvastatin is a P-gp substrate; mavorixafor is a P-gp inhibitor.
Siponimod: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and siponimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Sirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor sirolimus concentrations and adjust sirolimus dosage as appropriate during concomitant use of mavorixafor. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and mavorixafor is a weak CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Sodium Phenylbutyrate; Taurursodiol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with taurursodiol. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and taurursodiol is a P-gp inhibitor.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with velpatasvir. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and velpatasvir is a P-gp inhibitor.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir; Voxilaprevir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with velpatasvir. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and velpatasvir is a P-gp inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with voxilaprevir. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and voxilaprevir is a P-gp inhibitor.
Solifenacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and solifenacin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
SORAfenib: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and sorafenib may increase mavorixafor exposure and the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day if concomitant use is necessary. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate, sorafenib is a P-gp inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Sotalol: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and sotalol increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Sotorasib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with sotorasib. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and sotorasib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Sparsentan: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with sparsentan. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and sparsentan is a P-gp inhibitor.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mavorixafor and St. John's wort. Concurrent use may decrease mavorixafor exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate and St. John's wort is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Stiripentol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with stiripentol. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and stiripentol is a P-gp inhibitor.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Because the dose of the sufentanil sublingual tablets cannot be titrated, consider an alternate opiate if mavorixafor must be administered. Consider a reduced dose of sufentanil injection with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of mavorixafor is necessary. If mavorixafor is discontinued, consider increasing the sufentanil injection dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Sufentanil is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with a weak CYP3A inhibitor like mavorixafor can increase sufentanil exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of sufentanil. If mavorixafor is discontinued, sufentanil plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to sufentanil.
SUNItinib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and sunitinib may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Tacrolimus: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and tacrolimus may increase tacrolimus exposure and the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Monitor for tacrolimus-associated adverse reactions if concomitant use is necessary; the dose of tacrolimus may need to be reduced. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Tacrolimus is a sensitive CYP3A substrate, mavorixafor is a weak CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Talazoparib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in talazoparib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with mavorixafor is necessary. Talazoparib is a P-gp substrate and mavorixafor is a P-gp inhibitor.
Taletrectinib: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and mavorixafor increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Tamoxifen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and tamoxifen may result in decreased efficacy of tamoxifen and may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for decreased efficacy of tamoxifen and consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Tamoxifen is metabolized by CYP2D6 to endoxifen and 4-hydroxytamoxifen, both of which are minor metabolites but have 100-fold greater affinity for the estrogen receptor and 30- to 100-fold greater potency in suppressing estrogen-dependent cell proliferation than tamoxifen; mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. In 1 study, the mean steady-state endoxifen plasma concentration was significantly reduced in patients taking CYP2D6 inhibitors compared to those not taking concomitant CYP2D6 inhibitors. In another study, the mean steady-state plasma concentration of endoxifen in CYP2D6 normal metabolizers who were not receiving CYP2D6 inhibitors were 3.6-fold higher compared to normal metabolizers who were receiving strong CYP2D6 inhibitors; plasma levels in CYP2D6 normal metabolizers receiving strong CYP2D6 inhibitors were similar to levels observed in CYP2D6 poor metabolizers taking no CYP2D6 inhibitors. Some studies have shown that the efficacy of tamoxifen may be reduced when concomitant drugs decrease the levels of potent active metabolites; however, others have failed to demonstrate such an effect. The clinical significance is not well established. Additionally, both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Tamsulosin: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of mavorixafor with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 substrate and mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant treatment with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 1.3 and 1.6, respectively.
Telavancin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and telavancin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Temsirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both drugs if concomitant use of mavorixafor and temsirolimus is necessary. Reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day. Concomitant use may increase exposure of both drugs. Both drugs are P-gp substrates and inhibitors.
Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with mavorixafor is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and mavorixafor is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with mavorixafor may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and mavorixafor is a P-gp inhibitor.
Tepotinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with tepotinib. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and tepotinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
Tetrabenazine: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and tetrabenazine may increase tetrabenazine exposure and the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Do not exceed a single dose of tetrabenazine 25 mg and a daily dose of 50 mg if concomitant use is necessary. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. The primary metabolites of tetrabenazine, alpha-dihydrotetrabenzaine (alpha-HTBZ) and beta-dihydrotetrabenazine (beta-HTBZ), are substrates for CYP2D6, mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration of tetrabenazine with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor resulted in a 3-fold and 9-fold increase in AUC for alpha-HTBZ and beta-HTBZ, respectively. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Tezacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with ivacaftor. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and ivacaftor is a P-gp inhibitor.
Thioridazine: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of thioridazine and mavorixafor is contraindicated due to the potential for increased thioridazine exposure. Increased plasma concentrations of thioridazine are expected to increase the prolongation of the QT/QTc interval associated with thioridazine and may increase the risk of serious, potentially fatal, cardiac arrhythmias, such as torsade de pointes type arrhythmias. Thioridazine is a CYP2D6 substrate, mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Timolol: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of bradycardia or heart block if coadministration of timolol with mavorixafor is necessary. Concomitant use may enhance the beta-blocking properties of timolol resulting in further slowing of the heart rate or cardiac conduction. Timolol is a CYP2D6 substrate and mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Tipranavir: (Major) Decrease the mavorixafor dose to 200 mg PO once daily and monitor for adverse effects from both drugs if concomitant use with tipranavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the exposure of both drugs. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and P-gp inhibitor and tipranavir is a P-gp substrate and strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor increased mavorixafor overall exposure by 2-fold.
Tolterodine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and tolterodine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The risk for tolterodine-associated QT/QTc prolongation may be increased in poor CYP2D6 metabolizers. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Topotecan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mavorixafor with oral topotecan due to increased topotecan exposure; mavorixafor may be administered with intravenous topotecan. Coadministration increases the risk of topotecan-related adverse reactions. Oral topotecan is a P-gp substrate and mavorixafor is a P-gp inhibitor. Oral administration within 4 hours of another P-gp inhibitor increased the dose-normalized AUC of topotecan lactone and total topotecan 2-fold to 3-fold compared to oral topotecan alone.
Toremifene: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and toremifene increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
traMADol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tramadol with mavorixafor may produce unpredictable effects, including prolonged opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression, a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to opioid agonists, seizures, or serotonin syndrome. Consider dose adjustments of tramadol until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. Tramadol is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to the active metabolite M1, and by CYP3A; mavorixafor is a dual strong CYP2D6 and weak CYP3A inhibitor. CYP3A inhibitors may increase tramadol-related adverse effects while CYP2D6 inhibitors may reduce efficacy.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tramadol with mavorixafor may produce unpredictable effects, including prolonged opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression, a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to opioid agonists, seizures, or serotonin syndrome. Consider dose adjustments of tramadol until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. Tramadol is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to the active metabolite M1, and by CYP3A; mavorixafor is a dual strong CYP2D6 and weak CYP3A inhibitor. CYP3A inhibitors may increase tramadol-related adverse effects while CYP2D6 inhibitors may reduce efficacy.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with verapamil. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
traZODone: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and trazodone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Triazolam: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with mavorixafor. Coadministration may increase the exposure of triazolam. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and mavorixafor is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Triclabendazole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and triclabendazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tricyclic antidepressant (TCA)-related adverse reactions if coadministration with mavorixafor is necessary; a dose reduction of TCA may be necessary. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of TCAs which are CYP2D6 substrates; mavorixafor is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Trifluoperazine: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of mavorixafor and trifluoperazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Trimipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tricyclic antidepressant (TCA)-related adverse reactions if coadministration with mavorixafor is necessary; a dose reduction of TCA may be necessary. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of TCAs which are CYP2D6 substrates; mavorixafor is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Triptorelin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., triptorelin) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Trofinetide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with trofinetide. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor.
Tucatinib: (Major) Decrease the mavorixafor dose to 200 mg PO once daily and monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use with tucatinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure and the risk for mavorixafor-related adverse effects. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor increased mavorixafor overall exposure by 2-fold.
Ubrogepant: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with mavorixafor. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and mavorixafor is a weak CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Valbenazine: (Major) Consider reducing the dose of valbenazine, based on tolerability, during coadministration with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor, such as mavorixafor. QT prolongation is not clinically significant at valbenazine concentrations expected with recommended dosing; however, concentrations of the active metabolite of valbenazine may be higher in patients taking a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor and QT prolongation may become clinically significant.
Vandetanib: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and vandetanib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Vanzacaftor; Tezacaftor; Deutivacaftor: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is a P-gp inhibitor.
Vanzacaftor; Tezacaftor; Deutivacaftor: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is a P-gp inhibitor.
Vardenafil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and vardenafil may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Vemurafenib: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and vemurafenib may increase mavorixafor exposure and the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day, if concomitant use is necessary. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate, vemurafenib is a P-gp inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Venetoclax: (Major) Reduce the venetoclax dosage by at least 50% if concomitant use with mavorixafor is required. If needed, reduce the mavorixafor dosage by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day. Monitor for venetoclax toxicity (e.g., hematologic toxicity, GI toxicity, and tumor lysis syndrome) and for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects. Concomitant use may increase exposure of both drugs. Both drugs are P-gp substrates and inhibitors. Coadministration with a single dose of another P-gp inhibitor increased venetoclax exposure by 78% in a drug interaction study.
Venlafaxine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and venlafaxine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Vepdegestrant: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and mavorixafor increases the risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase mavorixafor exposure and the risk of other mavorixafor-related adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the mavorixafor daily dosage in 100 mg increments based on response to a minimum of 200 mg. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate, vepdegestrant is a P-gp inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Verapamil: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with verapamil. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Vimseltinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with vimseltinib. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and vimseltinib is a P-gp inhibitor.
vinCRIStine Liposomal: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of mavorixafor is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and mavorixafor is a P-gp inhibitor.
vinCRIStine: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of mavorixafor is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and mavorixafor is a P-gp inhibitor.
Vinorelbine: (Moderate) Monitor for an earlier onset and/or increased severity of vinorelbine-related adverse reactions, including constipation and peripheral neuropathy, if coadministration with mavorixafor is necessary. Vinorelbine is a CYP3A substrate and mavorixafor is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Voclosporin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and voclosporin may increase mavorixafor exposure and increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day if concomitant use is necessary. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate, voclosporin is a P-gp inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and clarithromycin may increase mavorixafor exposure and the risk for mavorixafor-related adverse effects, including QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Decrease the mavorixafor dose to 200 mg PO once daily and consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate, clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor increased mavorixafor overall exposure by 2-fold. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Voriconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of mavorixafor and voriconazole due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase mavorixafor exposure and the risk for other mavorixafor-related adverse effects. Decrease the mavorixafor dose to 200 mg PO once daily if concomitant use is necessary. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate, voriconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Vorinostat: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and vorinostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Vortioxetine: (Major) Reduce the vortioxetine dose by one-half during coadministration with mavorixafor. Increase the dose back to the original level when mavorixafor is discontinued. Coadministration may increase vortioxetine serum concentrations. Vortioxetine is a CYP2D6 substrate; mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased the AUC of vortioxetine by at least 2-fold.
Voxelotor: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with voxelotor. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Closely monitor the INR if coadministration of warfarin with mavorixafor is necessary as concurrent use may increase the exposure of warfarin leading to increased bleeding risk. The R-enantiomer of warfarin is a CYP3A substrate and mavorixafor is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. The S-enantiomer of warfarin exhibits 2 to 5 times more anticoagulant activity than the R-enantiomer, but the R-enantiomer generally has a slower clearance.
Xanomeline; Trospium: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of xanomeline and mavorixafor is necessary. If needed, reduce the mavorixafor dosage by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day. Concomitant use may increase the exposure of both medications. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and strong CYP2D6 inhibitor and xanomeline is a CYP2D6 substrate and P-gp inhibitor.
Zidesamtinib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and mavorixafor may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Ziftomenib: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and mavorixafor increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Ziprasidone: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and ziprasidone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Zonisamide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with zonisamide. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and zonisamide is a P-gp inhibitor.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    dizziness
    General Information
    Dizziness was reported in 14% of mavorixafor-treated subjects compared to 6% of placebo-treated subjects in clinical trials (n = 31).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    rhinitis
    General Information
    Rhinitis was reported in 14% of mavorixafor-treated subjects compared to 0% of placebo-treated subjects in clinical trials (n = 31).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      rhinitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    QT prolongation
    General Information
    Mavorixafor causes concentration-dependent QT prolongation. In a thorough QT (TQT) study, the maximum mean increase in the QTc interval was 15.6 msec after administration of mavorixafor 800 mg (2 times the maximum recommended dose) in healthy subjects. Monitor QTc during treatment as clinically indicated in persons with risk factors for QT prolongation. Mavorixafor dose reduction or discontinuation may be necessary.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      QT prolongation
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    vomiting
    General Information
    Vomiting was reported in 14% of mavorixafor-treated subjects compared to 6% of placebo-treated subjects in clinical trials (n = 31).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    rash
    General Information
    Rash and pityriasis were reported in 14% of mavorixafor-treated subjects compared to 0% of placebo-treated subjects in clinical trials (n = 31).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    epistaxis, thrombocytopenia
    General Information
    Epistaxis was reported in 14% of mavorixafor-treated subjects compared to 6% of placebo-treated subjects in mavorixafor clinical trials (n = 31). Thrombocytopenia was reported in 21% of mavorixafor-treated subjects compared to 0% of placebo-treated subjects.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      epistaxis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To

Description
  Text
  Mavorixafor is an oral CXC chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4) antagonist indicated for the treatment of WHIM syndrome (warts, hypogammaglobulinemia, infections, and myelokathexis) to increase the number of circulating mature neutrophils and lymphocytes. WHIM syndrome is a congenital immune deficiency with clinical features that include susceptibility to human papillomavirus infection-induced warts, neutropenia, B cell lymphopenia and hypogammaglobulinemia-related recurrent infections, and bone marrow myelokathexis. Mavorixafor causes concentration-dependent QT prolongation. Based on its mechanism of action, mavorixafor is expected to cause fetal harm. Pregnancy testing is required prior to initiation of mavorixafor; effective contraception is required for females of reproductive potential during treatment and for 3 weeks after the final dose. Mavorixafor was FDA-approved in April 2024.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Mavorixafor is an orally bioavailable CXC chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4) antagonist that blocks the binding of the CXCR4 ligand, stromal-derived factor-1 alpha (SDF-1 alpha)/CXC chemokine ligand 12 (CXCL12). CXCR4 is an amino acid protein in the G-protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) superfamily, with specificity for the chemokine, stromal cell-derived factor 1 (SDF-1), which is also known as CXCL12. SDF-1/CXCR4 plays a role in trafficking and homing of leukocytes to and from the bone marrow compartment. Mutations in the CXCR4 receptor gene that occur in persons with WHIM syndrome (warts, hypogammaglobulinemia, infections, and myelokathexis) lead to increased responsiveness to CXCL12 and retention of leukocytes in the bone marrow. Mavorixafor inhibits the response to CXCL12 in both wild-type and mutated CXCR4 variants associated with WHIM syndrome. Treatment with mavorixafor results in increased mobilization of neutrophils and lymphocytes from the bone marrow into peripheral circulation.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    The steady-state maximum drug concentration (Cmax) is 3,304 nanograms/mL and the exposure from 0 to 24 hours is 13,970 nanograms x hour/mL after mavorixafor 400 mg once daily. The median time to maximum drug concentration (Tmax) is 2.8 hours (range: 1.9 to 4 hours) after mavorixafor 400 mg once daily. Mavorixafor demonstrates nonlinear pharmacokinetics with greater than dose-proportional increases in Cmax and AUC(0 to 24 hours) over a dose range of 50 mg (0.125 times the recommended dose) to 400 mg. Mavorixafor steady-state is reached after approximately 9 to 12 days at 400 mg once daily. Mavorixafor Cmax decreased by 66% and AUC decreased by 55% after single-dose administration of mavorixafor 400 mg with a high-fat meal (1,000 calories, 50% fat) to healthy subjects. Mavorixafor Cmax decreased by 55% and AUC decreased by 51% after single-dose administration of mavorixafor 400 mg with a low-fat meal (500 calories, 25% fat) to healthy subjects. Additionally, a 14% higher Cmax and 18% lower AUC was observed after single-dose administration of mavorixafor 400 mg with a low-fat meal to healthy subjects after an overnight fast compared to fasting for an additional 4 hours after the mavorixafor dose. Absolute neutrophil count (ANC) and absolute lymphocyte count (ALC) peaked at 4 hours after mavorixafor administration and returned towards baseline within 24 hours after dosing. With mavorixafor dosing of 50 mg (0.125 times the maximum recommended dose) to 400 mg once daily, higher mavorixafor exposure at steady-state was associated with longer mean time (hours) above ANC threshold (TATANC) of 500 cells/microL and longer mean time (hours) above ALC threshold (TATALC) of 1,000 cells/microL over a 24-hour period.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    The effects of moderate to severe hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of mavorixafor are unknown.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in mavorixafor pharmacokinetics were observed based on mild to moderate renal impairment (CrCl 30 to less than 90 mL/minute). The effects of severe renal impairment (CrCl 15 to less than 30 mL/minute) and end-stage renal disease (ESRD) (CrCl less than 15 mL/minute) on the pharmacokinetics of mavorixafor are unknown.
    Name
    Pediatrics
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in mavorixafor pharmacokinetics were observed in pediatric subjects age 12 to 16 years compared to adults after accounting for differences in body weight.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in mavorixafor pharmacokinetics were observed based on age (12 to 58 years).
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in mavorixafor pharmacokinetics were observed based on sex.
    Name
    Other
    Description
    Higher Body Weight
After administration of mavorixafor 400 mg once daily in persons with higher body weight (85 kg or more), median maximum concentration (Cmax) and exposure (AUC) is 22% and 30% lower, respectively, compared to persons with average body weight (50 kg to less than 85 kg). The difference in exposure between persons with average body weight and persons with higher body weight is not expected to have a clinically significant impact on patient outcomes.
Lower Body Weight
Lower body weight is associated with lower mavorixafor clearance. Mavorixafor exposures are comparable between persons weighing 50 kg or less receiving 300 mg once daily and those weighing more than 50 kg receiving 400 mg once daily.
  Text
  Mavorixafor is administered orally. Mavorixafor is more than 93% bound to plasma proteins, and the Vd is 768 L. Mavorixafor is metabolized by CYP3A4 and, to a lesser extent, by CYP2D6. After a single oral dose of radiolabeled mavorixafor, 74.2% of the administered dose was recovered, with 61% recovered in feces and 13.2% (3% unchanged) recovered in the urine over the 240-hour collection period in healthy subjects. The apparent clearance of mavorixafor is 62 L/hour and the terminal half-life is 82 hours after single-dose administration of mavorixafor.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP3A4, CYP3A5, MATE1, OCT2, P-gp
Mavorixafor is a CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP3A4, CYP3A5, and P-gp substrate. Mavorixafor is CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP3A4, CYP3A5, MATE1, OCT2, and P-gp inhibitor. Mavorixafor is a CYP1A2 inducer.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Administer on an empty stomach after an overnight fast, and at least 30 minutes before food.
Swallow capsules whole. Do not open, break, or chew capsules.
Missed dose: If a dose is missed, take the next dose as scheduled. Do not take more than 1 dose each day.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    Weighing more than 50 kg: 400 mg/day PO.
Weighing 50 kg or less: 300 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    Weighing more than 50 kg: 400 mg/day PO.
Weighing 50 kg or less: 300 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Weighing more than 50 kg: 400 mg/day PO.
Weighing 50 kg or less: 300 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    12 years weighing more than 50 kg: 400 mg/day PO.
12 years weighing 50 kg or less: 300 mg/day PO.
1 to 11 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Mavorixafor is not recommended in persons with moderate to severe hepatic impairment. No dosage adjustment is recommended in persons with mild hepatic impairment.
  Renal Impairment
  Mavorixafor is not recommended in persons with severe renal impairment (CrCl 15 to less than 30 mL/minute) or end-stage renal disease (ESRD) (CrCl less than 15 mL/minute). No dosage adjustment is recommended in persons with mild to moderate renal impairment (CrCl 30 to less than 90 mL/minute).
