=== Adefovir — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 2233)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Adefovir dipivoxil is an acyclic nucleotide analog approved for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infections in patients 12 years and older.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 10 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): azotemia, bone fractures, bone pain, fanconi syndrome, hypophosphatemia, myopathy, nephrotoxicity, osteomalacia, renal failure (unspecified), hepatomegaly, hepatotoxicity, lactic acidosis, steatosis, pancreatitis

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Those with advanced hepatic disease or cirrhosis may be at higher risk for hepatic decompensation, although, in the HBeAg-positive and HBeAg-negative studies in patients with compensated liver function, the exacerbations were not generally accompanied by hepatic decompensation. Close monitoring...

ADEFOVIR

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Hepsera

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of chronic hepatitis B infection

Oral dosage
Adults


10 mg PO once daily. The optimal duration of treatment is not known. Adefovir is not recommended as a preferred HBV treatment option; consider the use of tenofovir or entecavir. Additionally, due to higher incidence of toxicity and HBV treatment failure, guidelines recommend against the use of adefovir for the treatment of patients with HBV and HIV coinfection.


Children and Adolescents 12 to 17 years


10 mg PO once daily. The optimal duration of treatment is not known. Adefovir is not recommended as a preferred HBV treatment option; consider the use of tenofovir or entecavir. Additionally, due to higher incidence of toxicity and HBV treatment failure, guidelines recommend against the use of adefovir for the treatment of patients with HBV and HIV coinfection.


Children 7 to 11 years†


0.25 mg/kg/dose (Max: 10 mg/dose) PO once daily provides similar exposure to that seen in adults.  In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of 35 patients, this dose was well tolerated and resulted in similar pharmacokinetics as seen in adults.


Children 2 to 6 years†


0.3 mg/kg/dose (Max: 10 mg/dose) PO once daily provides similar exposure to that seen in adults.  In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of 55 patients, this dose was well tolerated and resulted in similar pharmacokinetics as seen in adults.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

hepatitis B exacerbation


Patients who discontinue use of adefovir may experience a severe acute hepatitis B exacerbation. Those with advanced hepatic disease or cirrhosis may be at higher risk for hepatic decompensation, although, in the HBeAg-positive and HBeAg-negative studies in patients with compensated liver function, the exacerbations were not generally accompanied by hepatic decompensation. Close monitoring, both clinical and laboratory, is recommended for several months after stopping treatment with adefovir. If appropriate, resumption of anti-hepatitis B treatment may be required.


Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

nephrotoxicity, renal failure, renal impairment


Drug-associated nephrotoxicity may occur following chronic administration of adefovir to patients at risk of or having underlying renal dysfunction and in patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic medications. In patients with adequate renal function, the overall risk of nephrotoxicity is low. Adjustments to the dosing interval are recommended when administering to adults with renal impairment (CrCl less than 50 mL/minute), including those with renal failure who are on dialysis. No data are available to make dosing recommendations in adults with renal failure (CrCl less than 10 mL/minute) who are not on dialysis or in adolescents with any degree of renal impairment. Monitor all patients for changes in renal function and response to therapy; particularly close monitoring is recommended for those with pre-existing or other risks for renal impairment.


undiagnosed HIV-1 infection


Patients with untreated or undiagnosed HIV-1 infection may be an increased risk of developing HIV resistance after being exposed to anti-hepatitis B virus therapies that may have some activity against HIV, such as adefovir. Perform HIV antibody testing in all patients prior to starting adefovir. HIV treatment guidelines recommend against the use of adefovir (alone or in combination with lamivudine or emtricitabine) in patients with hepatitis B virus (HBV) and HIV coinfection. Data regarding the use of adefovir in these patients are limited; and compared with other treatment regimens, adefovir is associated with higher incidence of toxicity and increased rates of HBV treatment failure. Instead, guidelines recommend these patients receive a fully suppressive antiretroviral (ARV) regimen that contains a dual NRTI backbone of tenofovir alafenamide or tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with either emtricitabine or lamivudine. If tenofovir cannot be used, entecavir should be given in combination with a fully suppressive ARV regimen (note: entecavir should not be considered part of the ARV regimen). Most patients with coinfection should continue treatment indefinitely with the goal of maximal HIV suppression and prevention of HBV relapse. If treatment must be discontinued, monitor transaminase concentrations every 6 weeks for the first 3 months, and every 3 to 6 months thereafter. Instruct patients to avoid consuming alcohol, and offer vaccinations against hepatitis A and hepatitis B as appropriate.


liver transplant


The use of adefovir in liver transplant patients with chronic hepatitis B and clinical evidence of lamivudine-resistant hepatitis B virus may result in an increased risk for adverse reactions. In an open-label study, pre- (n = 226) and post- (n = 241) liver transplant patients who received adefovir for up to 203 weeks experienced abnormal renal function, renal failure, vomiting, rash, and pruritus. The contribution of adefovir to the changes in renal function is difficult to assess due to concomitant medications and comorbid conditions.


females, hepatotoxicity or lactic acidosis, obesity


Hepatotoxicity or lactic acidosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs, including adefovir. Typically, these adverse reactions present with symptoms such as enlargement of the liver (hepatomegaly) and fatty liver (steatosis), even in the absence of significant elevations in liver transaminases. A majority of these cases have occurred in females. Obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may be risk factors for the development of lactic acidosis and severe hepatotoxicity. Suspend adefovir treatment in patients who develop clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or hepatotoxicity.


pregnancy


Adequate and well-controlled studies have not been conducted regarding the use of adefovir during human pregnancy; prospective data from the Antiretroviral Pregnancy Registry (APR) are insufficient to adequately assess the risk of birth defects, miscarriages, or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. In animal studies, no adverse developmental effects were observed at adefovir exposures 23- and 40-times higher than those at the recommended human dose (RHD). Reduced body weight of the offspring due to maternal toxicity was seen in rats at exposures 23-times that in humans at the RHD. There are no data on the effect of adefovir on the transmission of HBV from mother to infant during labor and obstetric delivery; therefore, appropriate immunizations against HBV should be used to prevent neonatal acquisition of hepatitis B virus after birth, in accordance with current guidelines. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors outcomes in pregnant people exposed to adefovir dipivoxil; information about the registry can be obtained at www.apregistry.com or by calling 1-800-258-4263.


breast-feeding


Use adefovir with caution during breast-feeding. There is no data to assess the presence of adefovir in human breast milk, its effect on milk production, or its effect on the breast-fed child. Antiviral medications whose passage into human breast milk have been evaluated include tenofovir and lamivudine.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Adequate and well-controlled studies have not been conducted regarding the use of adefovir during human pregnancy; prospective data from the Antiretroviral Pregnancy Registry (APR) are insufficient to adequately assess the risk of birth defects, miscarriages, or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. In animal studies, no adverse developmental effects were observed at adefovir exposures 23- and 40-times higher than those at the recommended human dose (RHD). Reduced body weight of the offspring due to maternal toxicity was seen in rats at exposures 23-times that in humans at the RHD. There are no data on the effect of adefovir on the transmission of HBV from mother to infant during labor and obstetric delivery; therefore, appropriate immunizations against HBV should be used to prevent neonatal acquisition of hepatitis B virus after birth, in accordance with current guidelines. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors outcomes in pregnant people exposed to adefovir dipivoxil; information about the registry can be obtained at www.apregistry.com or by calling 1-800-258-4263.


Interactions

Abacavir: (Major) Patients who are concurrently taking adefovir with antiretrovirals (i.e., anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs)) are at risk of developing lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis. Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs alone or in combination with antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women; obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may also be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for hepatic disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Suspend adefovir in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations).
Abacavir; Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Major) Patients who are concurrently taking adefovir with antiretrovirals (i.e., anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs)) are at risk of developing lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis. Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs alone or in combination with antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women; obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may also be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for hepatic disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Suspend adefovir in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations).
Abacavir; lamiVUDine, 3TC: (Major) Patients who are concurrently taking adefovir with antiretrovirals (i.e., anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs)) are at risk of developing lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis. Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs alone or in combination with antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women; obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may also be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for hepatic disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Suspend adefovir in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations).
Abacavir; lamiVUDine, 3TC; Zidovudine, ZDV: (Major) Patients who are concurrently taking adefovir with antiretrovirals (i.e., anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs)) are at risk of developing lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis. Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs alone or in combination with antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women; obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may also be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for hepatic disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Suspend adefovir in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations).
Acetaminophen; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Chronic coadministration of adefovir with nephrotoxic drugs, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity even in patients who have normal renal function. The use of adefovir with NSAIDs may be done cautiously. As stated in the current adefovir prescribing information, 'Ibuprofen (800 mg PO three times daily), when given concomitantly with adefovir dipivoxil, increased the adefovir Cmax by 33% and AUC by 23%, as well as urinary recovery. The increase appears to be due to higher oral bioavailability, not a reduction in renal clearance of adefovir.' In an in vitro investigation, the antiviral effect of adefovir was unaltered and the renal proximal tubule accumulation of adefovir was inhibited by the presence of a NSAID. Adefovir is efficiently transported by the human renal organic anion transporter 1, and the presence of this transporter appears to mediate the accumulation of the drug in renal proximal tubules. The in vitro study suggests that the use of a NSAID with adefovir may potentially reduce the nephrotoxic potential of adefovir. Of course, NSAIDs are associated with nephrotoxicity of their own; therefore, further data on the interaction between NSAIDs and adefovir in humans are needed.
Acyclovir: (Moderate) Chronic coadministration of adefovir with nephrotoxic drugs, such as acyclovir, may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function.
Aldesleukin, IL-2: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of adefovir dipivoxil and aldesleukin; coadministration may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Alogliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion (e.g., adefovir) may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems. Although such interactions remain theoretical, careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of metformin and/or the interfering cationic drug are recommended.
Amikacin: (Moderate) Chronic coadministration of adefovir with nephrotoxic drugs, such as aminoglycosides, may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function.
aMILoride: (Moderate) Adefovir is eliminated renally by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion. Coadministration of adefovir dipivoxil with drugs that reduce renal function or compete for active tubular secretion, such as amiloride, may decrease adefovir elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems, thereby increasing serum concentrations of adefovir and/or amiloride. Coadministration of these drugs has not been studied, but caution is warranted.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Adefovir is eliminated renally by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion. Coadministration of adefovir dipivoxil with drugs that reduce renal function or compete for active tubular secretion, such as amiloride, may decrease adefovir elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems, thereby increasing serum concentrations of adefovir and/or amiloride. Coadministration of these drugs has not been studied, but caution is warranted.
Aminoglycosides: (Moderate) Chronic coadministration of adefovir with nephrotoxic drugs, such as aminoglycosides, may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Chronic coadministration of adefovir with nephrotoxic drugs, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity even in patients who have normal renal function. The use of adefovir with NSAIDs may be done cautiously. As stated in the current adefovir prescribing information, 'Ibuprofen (800 mg PO three times daily), when given concomitantly with adefovir dipivoxil, increased the adefovir Cmax by 33% and AUC by 23%, as well as urinary recovery. The increase appears to be due to higher oral bioavailability, not a reduction in renal clearance of adefovir.' In an in vitro investigation, the antiviral effect of adefovir was unaltered and the renal proximal tubule accumulation of adefovir was inhibited by the presence of a NSAID. Adefovir is efficiently transported by the human renal organic anion transporter 1, and the presence of this transporter appears to mediate the accumulation of the drug in renal proximal tubules. The in vitro study suggests that the use of a NSAID with adefovir may potentially reduce the nephrotoxic potential of adefovir. Of course, NSAIDs are associated with nephrotoxicity of their own; therefore, further data on the interaction between NSAIDs and adefovir in humans are needed.
Atazanavir: (Major) Patients who are concurrently taking adefovir with antiretrovirals like the protease inhibitors, are at risk of developing lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis. Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs alone or in combination with antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women; obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may also be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for hepatic disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Suspend adefovir in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations).
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Patients who are concurrently taking adefovir with antiretrovirals like the protease inhibitors, are at risk of developing lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis. Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs alone or in combination with antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women; obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may also be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for hepatic disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Suspend adefovir in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations).
Bictegravir; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of adefovir dipivoxil and tenofovir alafenamide may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required. (Moderate) Patients who are concurrently taking adefovir with emtricitabine are at risk of developing lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis. Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs alone or in combination with antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women; obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may also be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for hepatic disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Suspend adefovir in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations).
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Moderate) Chronic coadministration of adefovir with nephrotoxic drugs, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity even in patients who have normal renal function. The use of adefovir with NSAIDs may be done cautiously. As stated in the current adefovir prescribing information, 'Ibuprofen (800 mg PO three times daily), when given concomitantly with adefovir dipivoxil, increased the adefovir Cmax by 33% and AUC by 23%, as well as urinary recovery. The increase appears to be due to higher oral bioavailability, not a reduction in renal clearance of adefovir.' In an in vitro investigation, the antiviral effect of adefovir was unaltered and the renal proximal tubule accumulation of adefovir was inhibited by the presence of a NSAID. Adefovir is efficiently transported by the human renal organic anion transporter 1, and the presence of this transporter appears to mediate the accumulation of the drug in renal proximal tubules. The in vitro study suggests that the use of a NSAID with adefovir may potentially reduce the nephrotoxic potential of adefovir. Of course, NSAIDs are associated with nephrotoxicity of their own; therefore, further data on the interaction between NSAIDs and adefovir in humans are needed.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Major) Patients who are concurrently taking adefovir (a nucleotide analog) with antiretrovirals (i.e., anti-retroviral non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs)) are at risk of developing lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis. Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs alone or in combination with antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women; obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may also be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for hepatic disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Suspend adefovir in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations).
Canagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion (e.g., adefovir) may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems. Although such interactions remain theoretical, careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of metformin and/or the interfering cationic drug are recommended.
Celecoxib: (Moderate) Chronic coadministration of adefovir with nephrotoxic drugs, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity even in patients who have normal renal function. The use of adefovir with NSAIDs may be done cautiously. As stated in the current adefovir prescribing information, 'Ibuprofen (800 mg PO three times daily), when given concomitantly with adefovir dipivoxil, increased the adefovir Cmax by 33% and AUC by 23%, as well as urinary recovery. The increase appears to be due to higher oral bioavailability, not a reduction in renal clearance of adefovir.' In an in vitro investigation, the antiviral effect of adefovir was unaltered and the renal proximal tubule accumulation of adefovir was inhibited by the presence of a NSAID. Adefovir is efficiently transported by the human renal organic anion transporter 1, and the presence of this transporter appears to mediate the accumulation of the drug in renal proximal tubules. The in vitro study suggests that the use of a NSAID with adefovir may potentially reduce the nephrotoxic potential of adefovir. Of course, NSAIDs are associated with nephrotoxicity of their own; therefore, further data on the interaction between NSAIDs and adefovir in humans are needed.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Chronic coadministration of adefovir with nephrotoxic drugs, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity even in patients who have normal renal function. The use of adefovir with NSAIDs may be done cautiously. As stated in the current adefovir prescribing information, 'Ibuprofen (800 mg PO three times daily), when given concomitantly with adefovir dipivoxil, increased the adefovir Cmax by 33% and AUC by 23%, as well as urinary recovery. The increase appears to be due to higher oral bioavailability, not a reduction in renal clearance of adefovir.' In an in vitro investigation, the antiviral effect of adefovir was unaltered and the renal proximal tubule accumulation of adefovir was inhibited by the presence of a NSAID. Adefovir is efficiently transported by the human renal organic anion transporter 1, and the presence of this transporter appears to mediate the accumulation of the drug in renal proximal tubules. The in vitro study suggests that the use of a NSAID with adefovir may potentially reduce the nephrotoxic potential of adefovir. Of course, NSAIDs are associated with nephrotoxicity of their own; therefore, further data on the interaction between NSAIDs and adefovir in humans are needed.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Chronic coadministration of adefovir with nephrotoxic drugs, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity even in patients who have normal renal function. The use of adefovir with NSAIDs may be done cautiously. As stated in the current adefovir prescribing information, 'Ibuprofen (800 mg PO three times daily), when given concomitantly with adefovir dipivoxil, increased the adefovir Cmax by 33% and AUC by 23%, as well as urinary recovery. The increase appears to be due to higher oral bioavailability, not a reduction in renal clearance of adefovir.' In an in vitro investigation, the antiviral effect of adefovir was unaltered and the renal proximal tubule accumulation of adefovir was inhibited by the presence of a NSAID. Adefovir is efficiently transported by the human renal organic anion transporter 1, and the presence of this transporter appears to mediate the accumulation of the drug in renal proximal tubules. The in vitro study suggests that the use of a NSAID with adefovir may potentially reduce the nephrotoxic potential of adefovir. Of course, NSAIDs are associated with nephrotoxicity of their own; therefore, further data on the interaction between NSAIDs and adefovir in humans are needed.
Cidofovir: (Contraindicated) The administration of cidofovir with another potentially nephrotoxic agent, such as adefovir, is contraindicated. Adefovir should be discontinued at least 7 days prior to beginning cidofovir.
Cimetidine: (Moderate) Adefovir is eliminated renally by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion; coadministration of adefovir dipivoxil with drugs that reduce renal function or compete for active tubular secretion, such as cimetidine, may decrease adefovir elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems, thereby increasing serum concentrations of adefovir and/or cimetidine. Coadministration of these drugs has not been studied, but caution is warranted.
CISplatin: (Moderate) Closely monitor renal function if concomitant use with cisplatin and adefovir is necessary. Both drugs can cause nephrotoxicity, which may be additive when used together.
Clindamycin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of adefovir dipivoxil and clindamycin may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Clofarabine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofarabine and adefovir may result in altered clofarabine levels because both agents are substrates of OAT1. Therefore, monitor for signs of clofarabine toxicity such as gastrointestinal toxicity (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, mucosal inflammation), hematologic toxicity, and skin toxicity (e.g., hand and foot syndrome, rash, pruritus) in patients also receiving OAT1 substrates.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Chronic coadministration of adefovir with nephrotoxic drugs, such as cyclosporine, may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Cyclosporine itself can cause structural kidney damage. Monitor renal function and fluid status carefully during co-use.
Dapagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion (e.g., adefovir) may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems. Although such interactions remain theoretical, careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of metformin and/or the interfering cationic drug are recommended.
Darunavir: (Major) Patients who are concurrently taking adefovir with antiretrovirals like the protease inhibitors, are at risk of developing lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis. Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs alone or in combination with antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women; obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may also be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for hepatic disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Suspend adefovir in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations).
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Patients who are concurrently taking adefovir with antiretrovirals like the protease inhibitors, are at risk of developing lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis. Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs alone or in combination with antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women; obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may also be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for hepatic disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Suspend adefovir in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations).
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Patients who are concurrently taking adefovir with antiretrovirals like the protease inhibitors, are at risk of developing lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis. Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs alone or in combination with antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women; obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may also be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for hepatic disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Suspend adefovir in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations). (Moderate) Concomitant use of adefovir dipivoxil and tenofovir alafenamide may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required. (Moderate) Patients who are concurrently taking adefovir with emtricitabine are at risk of developing lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis. Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs alone or in combination with antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women; obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may also be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for hepatic disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Suspend adefovir in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations).
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Moderate) Adefovir is eliminated renally by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion; coadministration of adefovir dipivoxil with drugs that reduce renal function or compete for active tubular secretion, such as quinidine, may decrease adefovir elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems, therefore increasing serum concentrations of either adefovir and/or these coadministered drugs.
Dichlorphenamide: (Major) Use of dichlorphenamide and adefovir is not recommended because of increased adefovir exposure and a risk of adefovir-related adverse effects. Monitor closely for signs of drug toxicity if coadministration cannot be avoided. For example, it is important to monitor renal function for all patients during treatment with adefovir, as the drug may cause nephrotoxicity. Increased adefovir exposure is possible. Adefovir is a sensitive OAT1 substrate. Dichlorphenamide inhibits OAT1.
Diclofenac: (Moderate) Chronic coadministration of adefovir with nephrotoxic drugs, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity even in patients who have normal renal function. The use of adefovir with NSAIDs may be done cautiously. As stated in the current adefovir prescribing information, 'Ibuprofen (800 mg PO three times daily), when given concomitantly with adefovir dipivoxil, increased the adefovir Cmax by 33% and AUC by 23%, as well as urinary recovery. The increase appears to be due to higher oral bioavailability, not a reduction in renal clearance of adefovir.' In an in vitro investigation, the antiviral effect of adefovir was unaltered and the renal proximal tubule accumulation of adefovir was inhibited by the presence of a NSAID. Adefovir is efficiently transported by the human renal organic anion transporter 1, and the presence of this transporter appears to mediate the accumulation of the drug in renal proximal tubules. The in vitro study suggests that the use of a NSAID with adefovir may potentially reduce the nephrotoxic potential of adefovir. Of course, NSAIDs are associated with nephrotoxicity of their own; therefore, further data on the interaction between NSAIDs and adefovir in humans are needed.
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Moderate) Chronic coadministration of adefovir with nephrotoxic drugs, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity even in patients who have normal renal function. The use of adefovir with NSAIDs may be done cautiously. As stated in the current adefovir prescribing information, 'Ibuprofen (800 mg PO three times daily), when given concomitantly with adefovir dipivoxil, increased the adefovir Cmax by 33% and AUC by 23%, as well as urinary recovery. The increase appears to be due to higher oral bioavailability, not a reduction in renal clearance of adefovir.' In an in vitro investigation, the antiviral effect of adefovir was unaltered and the renal proximal tubule accumulation of adefovir was inhibited by the presence of a NSAID. Adefovir is efficiently transported by the human renal organic anion transporter 1, and the presence of this transporter appears to mediate the accumulation of the drug in renal proximal tubules. The in vitro study suggests that the use of a NSAID with adefovir may potentially reduce the nephrotoxic potential of adefovir. Of course, NSAIDs are associated with nephrotoxicity of their own; therefore, further data on the interaction between NSAIDs and adefovir in humans are needed.
Diflunisal: (Moderate) Chronic coadministration of adefovir with nephrotoxic drugs, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity even in patients who have normal renal function. The use of adefovir with NSAIDs may be done cautiously. As stated in the current adefovir prescribing information, 'Ibuprofen (800 mg PO three times daily), when given concomitantly with adefovir dipivoxil, increased the adefovir Cmax by 33% and AUC by 23%, as well as urinary recovery. The increase appears to be due to higher oral bioavailability, not a reduction in renal clearance of adefovir.' In an in vitro investigation, the antiviral effect of adefovir was unaltered and the renal proximal tubule accumulation of adefovir was inhibited by the presence of a NSAID. Adefovir is efficiently transported by the human renal organic anion transporter 1, and the presence of this transporter appears to mediate the accumulation of the drug in renal proximal tubules. The in vitro study suggests that the use of a NSAID with adefovir may potentially reduce the nephrotoxic potential of adefovir. Of course, NSAIDs are associated with nephrotoxicity of their own; therefore, further data on the interaction between NSAIDs and adefovir in humans are needed.
Digoxin: (Moderate) Adefovir is eliminated renally by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion; coadministration of adefovir dipivoxil with drugs that reduce renal function or compete for active tubular secretion, such as digoxin, may decrease adefovir elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems; therefore increasing serum concentrations of either adefovir and/or digoxin may occur. Coadministration of these drugs has not been studied, but caution is warranted.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Chronic coadministration of adefovir with nephrotoxic drugs, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity even in patients who have normal renal function. The use of adefovir with NSAIDs may be done cautiously. As stated in the current adefovir prescribing information, 'Ibuprofen (800 mg PO three times daily), when given concomitantly with adefovir dipivoxil, increased the adefovir Cmax by 33% and AUC by 23%, as well as urinary recovery. The increase appears to be due to higher oral bioavailability, not a reduction in renal clearance of adefovir.' In an in vitro investigation, the antiviral effect of adefovir was unaltered and the renal proximal tubule accumulation of adefovir was inhibited by the presence of a NSAID. Adefovir is efficiently transported by the human renal organic anion transporter 1, and the presence of this transporter appears to mediate the accumulation of the drug in renal proximal tubules. The in vitro study suggests that the use of a NSAID with adefovir may potentially reduce the nephrotoxic potential of adefovir. Of course, NSAIDs are associated with nephrotoxicity of their own; therefore, further data on the interaction between NSAIDs and adefovir in humans are needed.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Chronic coadministration of adefovir with nephrotoxic drugs, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity even in patients who have normal renal function. The use of adefovir with NSAIDs may be done cautiously. As stated in the current adefovir prescribing information, 'Ibuprofen (800 mg PO three times daily), when given concomitantly with adefovir dipivoxil, increased the adefovir Cmax by 33% and AUC by 23%, as well as urinary recovery. The increase appears to be due to higher oral bioavailability, not a reduction in renal clearance of adefovir.' In an in vitro investigation, the antiviral effect of adefovir was unaltered and the renal proximal tubule accumulation of adefovir was inhibited by the presence of a NSAID. Adefovir is efficiently transported by the human renal organic anion transporter 1, and the presence of this transporter appears to mediate the accumulation of the drug in renal proximal tubules. The in vitro study suggests that the use of a NSAID with adefovir may potentially reduce the nephrotoxic potential of adefovir. Of course, NSAIDs are associated with nephrotoxicity of their own; therefore, further data on the interaction between NSAIDs and adefovir in humans are needed.
Dofetilide: (Moderate) Adefovir is eliminated renally by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion; coadministration of adefovir dipivoxil with drugs that reduce renal function or compete for active tubular secretion, such as dofetilide, may decrease adefovir elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems, therefore increasing serum concentrations of either adefovir and/or these coadministered drugs.
Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Major) Patients who are concurrently taking adefovir with antiretrovirals (i.e., anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs)) are at risk of developing lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis. Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs alone or in combination with antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women; obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may also be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for hepatic disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Suspend adefovir in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations).
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Major) Patients who are concurrently taking adefovir (a nucleotide analog) with antiretrovirals (i.e., anti-retroviral non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs)) are at risk of developing lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis. Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs alone or in combination with antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women; obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may also be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for hepatic disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Suspend adefovir in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations).
Donepezil; Memantine: (Moderate) Adefovir is eliminated renally by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion; coadministration of adefovir dipivoxil with drugs that reduce renal function or compete for active tubular secretion, such as memantine, may decrease adefovir elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems; therefore increasing serum concentrations of either adefovir and/or memantine may occur.
Doravirine: (Major) Patients who are concurrently taking adefovir with non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors are at risk of developing lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis. Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs alone or in combination with antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women; obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may also be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for hepatic disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Suspend adefovir in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations).
Doravirine; Islatravir: (Major) Patients who are concurrently taking adefovir with non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors are at risk of developing lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis. Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs alone or in combination with antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women; obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may also be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for hepatic disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Suspend adefovir in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations).
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with adefovir. Both tenofovir and adefovir are primarily excreted via the kidneys by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion. Concurrent administration may increase concentrations of both drugs resulting in additive nephrotoxicity. Additionally, in the treatment of chronic hepatitis B, tenofovir should not be administered in combination with adefovir to avoid multi-drug resistance. If coadministration is necessary, patients should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus, and urine glucose and protein. (Major) Patients who are concurrently taking adefovir with antiretrovirals (i.e., anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs)) are at risk of developing lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis. Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs alone or in combination with antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women; obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may also be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for hepatic disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Suspend adefovir in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations). (Major) Patients who are concurrently taking adefovir with non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors are at risk of developing lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis. Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs alone or in combination with antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women; obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may also be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for hepatic disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Suspend adefovir in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations).
Efavirenz: (Major) Patients who are concurrently taking adefovir with non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors are at risk of developing lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis. Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs alone or in combination with antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women; obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may also be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for hepatic disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Suspend adefovir in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations).
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with adefovir. Both tenofovir and adefovir are primarily excreted via the kidneys by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion. Concurrent administration may increase concentrations of both drugs resulting in additive nephrotoxicity. Additionally, in the treatment of chronic hepatitis B, tenofovir should not be administered in combination with adefovir to avoid multi-drug resistance. If coadministration is necessary, patients should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus, and urine glucose and protein. (Major) Patients who are concurrently taking adefovir with non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors are at risk of developing lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis. Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs alone or in combination with antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women; obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may also be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for hepatic disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Suspend adefovir in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations). (Moderate) Patients who are concurrently taking adefovir with emtricitabine are at risk of developing lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis. Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs alone or in combination with antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women; obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may also be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for hepatic disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Suspend adefovir in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations).
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with adefovir. Both tenofovir and adefovir are primarily excreted via the kidneys by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion. Concurrent administration may increase concentrations of both drugs resulting in additive nephrotoxicity. Additionally, in the treatment of chronic hepatitis B, tenofovir should not be administered in combination with adefovir to avoid multi-drug resistance. If coadministration is necessary, patients should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus, and urine glucose and protein. (Major) Patients who are concurrently taking adefovir with antiretrovirals (i.e., anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs)) are at risk of developing lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis. Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs alone or in combination with antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women; obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may also be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for hepatic disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Suspend adefovir in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations). (Major) Patients who are concurrently taking adefovir with non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors are at risk of developing lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis. Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs alone or in combination with antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women; obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may also be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for hepatic disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Suspend adefovir in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations).
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of adefovir dipivoxil and tenofovir alafenamide may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required. (Moderate) Patients who are concurrently taking adefovir with emtricitabine are at risk of developing lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis. Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs alone or in combination with antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women; obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may also be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for hepatic disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Suspend adefovir in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations).
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with adefovir. Both tenofovir and adefovir are primarily excreted via the kidneys by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion. Concurrent administration may increase concentrations of both drugs resulting in additive nephrotoxicity. Additionally, in the treatment of chronic hepatitis B, tenofovir should not be administered in combination with adefovir to avoid multi-drug resistance. If coadministration is necessary, patients should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus, and urine glucose and protein. (Moderate) Patients who are concurrently taking adefovir with emtricitabine are at risk of developing lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis. Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs alone or in combination with antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women; obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may also be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for hepatic disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Suspend adefovir in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations).
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion (e.g., adefovir) may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems. Although such interactions remain theoretical, careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of metformin and/or the interfering cationic drug are recommended.
Empagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion (e.g., adefovir) may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems. Although such interactions remain theoretical, careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of metformin and/or the interfering cationic drug are recommended.
Emtricitabine: (Moderate) Patients who are concurrently taking adefovir with emtricitabine are at risk of developing lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis. Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs alone or in combination with antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women; obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may also be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for hepatic disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Suspend adefovir in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations).
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Patients who are concurrently taking adefovir (a nucleotide analog) with antiretrovirals (i.e., anti-retroviral non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs)) are at risk of developing lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis. Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs alone or in combination with antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women; obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may also be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for hepatic disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Suspend adefovir in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations). (Moderate) Concomitant use of adefovir dipivoxil and tenofovir alafenamide may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required. (Moderate) Patients who are concurrently taking adefovir with emtricitabine are at risk of developing lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis. Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs alone or in combination with antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women; obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may also be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for hepatic disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Suspend adefovir in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations).
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with adefovir. Both tenofovir and adefovir are primarily excreted via the kidneys by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion. Concurrent administration may increase concentrations of both drugs resulting in additive nephrotoxicity. Additionally, in the treatment of chronic hepatitis B, tenofovir should not be administered in combination with adefovir to avoid multi-drug resistance. If coadministration is necessary, patients should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus, and urine glucose and protein. (Major) Patients who are concurrently taking adefovir (a nucleotide analog) with antiretrovirals (i.e., anti-retroviral non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs)) are at risk of developing lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis. Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs alone or in combination with antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women; obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may also be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for hepatic disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Suspend adefovir in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations). (Moderate) Patients who are concurrently taking adefovir with emtricitabine are at risk of developing lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis. Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs alone or in combination with antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women; obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may also be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for hepatic disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Suspend adefovir in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations).
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of adefovir dipivoxil and tenofovir alafenamide may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required. (Moderate) Patients who are concurrently taking adefovir with emtricitabine are at risk of developing lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis. Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs alone or in combination with antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women; obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may also be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for hepatic disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Suspend adefovir in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations).
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with adefovir. Both tenofovir and adefovir are primarily excreted via the kidneys by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion. Concurrent administration may increase concentrations of both drugs resulting in additive nephrotoxicity. Additionally, in the treatment of chronic hepatitis B, tenofovir should not be administered in combination with adefovir to avoid multi-drug resistance. If coadministration is necessary, patients should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus, and urine glucose and protein. (Moderate) Patients who are concurrently taking adefovir with emtricitabine are at risk of developing lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis. Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs alone or in combination with antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women; obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may also be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for hepatic disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Suspend adefovir in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations).
Entecavir: (Major) Patients who are concurrently taking adefovir with antiretrovirals (i.e., anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs)) are at risk of developing lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis. Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs alone or in combination with antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women; obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may also be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for hepatic disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Suspend adefovir in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations). Additionally, while both entecavir and adefovir are eliminated by active tubular secretion, per the manufacturer of entecavir, neither the pharmacokinetics of entecavir nor adefovir were altered when given concomitantly.
Ertugliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion (e.g., adefovir) may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems. Although such interactions remain theoretical, careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of metformin and/or the interfering cationic drug are recommended.
Etodolac: (Moderate) Chronic coadministration of adefovir with nephrotoxic drugs, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity even in patients who have normal renal function. The use of adefovir with NSAIDs may be done cautiously. As stated in the current adefovir prescribing information, 'Ibuprofen (800 mg PO three times daily), when given concomitantly with adefovir dipivoxil, increased the adefovir Cmax by 33% and AUC by 23%, as well as urinary recovery. The increase appears to be due to higher oral bioavailability, not a reduction in renal clearance of adefovir.' In an in vitro investigation, the antiviral effect of adefovir was unaltered and the renal proximal tubule accumulation of adefovir was inhibited by the presence of a NSAID. Adefovir is efficiently transported by the human renal organic anion transporter 1, and the presence of this transporter appears to mediate the accumulation of the drug in renal proximal tubules. The in vitro study suggests that the use of a NSAID with adefovir may potentially reduce the nephrotoxic potential of adefovir. Of course, NSAIDs are associated with nephrotoxicity of their own; therefore, further data on the interaction between NSAIDs and adefovir in humans are needed.
Etravirine: (Major) Patients who are concurrently taking adefovir with non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors are at risk of developing lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis. Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs alone or in combination with antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women; obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may also be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for hepatic disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Suspend adefovir in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations).
Fenofibrate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of adefovir dipivoxil and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Fenofibric Acid: (Moderate) Concomitant use of adefovir dipivoxil and fenofibric acid may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Fenoprofen: (Moderate) Chronic coadministration of adefovir with nephrotoxic drugs, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity even in patients who have normal renal function. The use of adefovir with NSAIDs may be done cautiously. As stated in the current adefovir prescribing information, 'Ibuprofen (800 mg PO three times daily), when given concomitantly with adefovir dipivoxil, increased the adefovir Cmax by 33% and AUC by 23%, as well as urinary recovery. The increase appears to be due to higher oral bioavailability, not a reduction in renal clearance of adefovir.' In an in vitro investigation, the antiviral effect of adefovir was unaltered and the renal proximal tubule accumulation of adefovir was inhibited by the presence of a NSAID. Adefovir is efficiently transported by the human renal organic anion transporter 1, and the presence of this transporter appears to mediate the accumulation of the drug in renal proximal tubules. The in vitro study suggests that the use of a NSAID with adefovir may potentially reduce the nephrotoxic potential of adefovir. Of course, NSAIDs are associated with nephrotoxicity of their own; therefore, further data on the interaction between NSAIDs and adefovir in humans are needed.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of adefovir and fexinidazole and monitor for an increase in adefovir-related adverse reactions if coadministration with fexinidazole is necessary. Fexinidazole may inhibit adefovir elimination and increase adefovir exposure.
Flurbiprofen: (Moderate) Chronic coadministration of adefovir with nephrotoxic drugs, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity even in patients who have normal renal function. The use of adefovir with NSAIDs may be done cautiously. As stated in the current adefovir prescribing information, 'Ibuprofen (800 mg PO three times daily), when given concomitantly with adefovir dipivoxil, increased the adefovir Cmax by 33% and AUC by 23%, as well as urinary recovery. The increase appears to be due to higher oral bioavailability, not a reduction in renal clearance of adefovir.' In an in vitro investigation, the antiviral effect of adefovir was unaltered and the renal proximal tubule accumulation of adefovir was inhibited by the presence of a NSAID. Adefovir is efficiently transported by the human renal organic anion transporter 1, and the presence of this transporter appears to mediate the accumulation of the drug in renal proximal tubules. The in vitro study suggests that the use of a NSAID with adefovir may potentially reduce the nephrotoxic potential of adefovir. Of course, NSAIDs are associated with nephrotoxicity of their own; therefore, further data on the interaction between NSAIDs and adefovir in humans are needed.
Fosamprenavir: (Major) Patients who are concurrently taking adefovir with antiretrovirals like the protease inhibitors, are at risk of developing lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis. Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs alone or in combination with antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women; obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may also be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for hepatic disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Suspend adefovir in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations).
Gentamicin: (Moderate) Chronic coadministration of adefovir with nephrotoxic drugs, such as aminoglycosides, may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function.
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion (e.g., adefovir) may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems. Although such interactions remain theoretical, careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of metformin and/or the interfering cationic drug are recommended.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion (e.g., adefovir) may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems. Although such interactions remain theoretical, careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of metformin and/or the interfering cationic drug are recommended.
Hyaluronidase, Recombinant; Immune Globulin: (Moderate) Immune Globulin (IG) products have been reported to be associated with renal dysfunction, acute renal failure, osmotic nephrosis, and death. Patients predisposed to acute renal failure include patients receiving known nephrotoxic drugs like adefovir. Coadminister IG products at the minimum concentration available and the minimum rate of infusion practicable. Also, closely monitor renal function.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Chronic coadministration of adefovir with nephrotoxic drugs, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity even in patients who have normal renal function. The use of adefovir with NSAIDs may be done cautiously. As stated in the current adefovir prescribing information, 'Ibuprofen (800 mg PO three times daily), when given concomitantly with adefovir dipivoxil, increased the adefovir Cmax by 33% and AUC by 23%, as well as urinary recovery. The increase appears to be due to higher oral bioavailability, not a reduction in renal clearance of adefovir.' In an in vitro investigation, the antiviral effect of adefovir was unaltered and the renal proximal tubule accumulation of adefovir was inhibited by the presence of a NSAID. Adefovir is efficiently transported by the human renal organic anion transporter 1, and the presence of this transporter appears to mediate the accumulation of the drug in renal proximal tubules. The in vitro study suggests that the use of a NSAID with adefovir may potentially reduce the nephrotoxic potential of adefovir. Of course, NSAIDs are associated with nephrotoxicity of their own; therefore, further data on the interaction between NSAIDs and adefovir in humans are needed.
Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Chronic coadministration of adefovir with nephrotoxic drugs, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity even in patients who have normal renal function. The use of adefovir with NSAIDs may be done cautiously. As stated in the current adefovir prescribing information, 'Ibuprofen (800 mg PO three times daily), when given concomitantly with adefovir dipivoxil, increased the adefovir Cmax by 33% and AUC by 23%, as well as urinary recovery. The increase appears to be due to higher oral bioavailability, not a reduction in renal clearance of adefovir.' In an in vitro investigation, the antiviral effect of adefovir was unaltered and the renal proximal tubule accumulation of adefovir was inhibited by the presence of a NSAID. Adefovir is efficiently transported by the human renal organic anion transporter 1, and the presence of this transporter appears to mediate the accumulation of the drug in renal proximal tubules. The in vitro study suggests that the use of a NSAID with adefovir may potentially reduce the nephrotoxic potential of adefovir. Of course, NSAIDs are associated with nephrotoxicity of their own; therefore, further data on the interaction between NSAIDs and adefovir in humans are needed.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Moderate) Chronic coadministration of adefovir with nephrotoxic drugs, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity even in patients who have normal renal function. The use of adefovir with NSAIDs may be done cautiously. As stated in the current adefovir prescribing information, 'Ibuprofen (800 mg PO three times daily), when given concomitantly with adefovir dipivoxil, increased the adefovir Cmax by 33% and AUC by 23%, as well as urinary recovery. The increase appears to be due to higher oral bioavailability, not a reduction in renal clearance of adefovir.' In an in vitro investigation, the antiviral effect of adefovir was unaltered and the renal proximal tubule accumulation of adefovir was inhibited by the presence of a NSAID. Adefovir is efficiently transported by the human renal organic anion transporter 1, and the presence of this transporter appears to mediate the accumulation of the drug in renal proximal tubules. The in vitro study suggests that the use of a NSAID with adefovir may potentially reduce the nephrotoxic potential of adefovir. Of course, NSAIDs are associated with nephrotoxicity of their own; therefore, further data on the interaction between NSAIDs and adefovir in humans are needed.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Chronic coadministration of adefovir with nephrotoxic drugs, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity even in patients who have normal renal function. The use of adefovir with NSAIDs may be done cautiously. As stated in the current adefovir prescribing information, 'Ibuprofen (800 mg PO three times daily), when given concomitantly with adefovir dipivoxil, increased the adefovir Cmax by 33% and AUC by 23%, as well as urinary recovery. The increase appears to be due to higher oral bioavailability, not a reduction in renal clearance of adefovir.' In an in vitro investigation, the antiviral effect of adefovir was unaltered and the renal proximal tubule accumulation of adefovir was inhibited by the presence of a NSAID. Adefovir is efficiently transported by the human renal organic anion transporter 1, and the presence of this transporter appears to mediate the accumulation of the drug in renal proximal tubules. The in vitro study suggests that the use of a NSAID with adefovir may potentially reduce the nephrotoxic potential of adefovir. Of course, NSAIDs are associated with nephrotoxicity of their own; therefore, further data on the interaction between NSAIDs and adefovir in humans are needed.
Immune Globulin (IVIG, IMIG, SCIG): (Moderate) Immune Globulin (IG) products have been reported to be associated with renal dysfunction, acute renal failure, osmotic nephrosis, and death. Patients predisposed to acute renal failure include patients receiving known nephrotoxic drugs like adefovir. Coadminister IG products at the minimum concentration available and the minimum rate of infusion practicable. Also, closely monitor renal function.
Indomethacin: (Moderate) Chronic coadministration of adefovir with nephrotoxic drugs, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity even in patients who have normal renal function. The use of adefovir with NSAIDs may be done cautiously. As stated in the current adefovir prescribing information, 'Ibuprofen (800 mg PO three times daily), when given concomitantly with adefovir dipivoxil, increased the adefovir Cmax by 33% and AUC by 23%, as well as urinary recovery. The increase appears to be due to higher oral bioavailability, not a reduction in renal clearance of adefovir.' In an in vitro investigation, the antiviral effect of adefovir was unaltered and the renal proximal tubule accumulation of adefovir was inhibited by the presence of a NSAID. Adefovir is efficiently transported by the human renal organic anion transporter 1, and the presence of this transporter appears to mediate the accumulation of the drug in renal proximal tubules. The in vitro study suggests that the use of a NSAID with adefovir may potentially reduce the nephrotoxic potential of adefovir. Of course, NSAIDs are associated with nephrotoxicity of their own; therefore, further data on the interaction between NSAIDs and adefovir in humans are needed.
Inotersen: (Moderate) Use caution with concomitant use of inotersen and adefovir due to the risk of glomerulonephritis and nephrotoxicity.
Ketoprofen: (Moderate) Chronic coadministration of adefovir with nephrotoxic drugs, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity even in patients who have normal renal function. The use of adefovir with NSAIDs may be done cautiously. As stated in the current adefovir prescribing information, 'Ibuprofen (800 mg PO three times daily), when given concomitantly with adefovir dipivoxil, increased the adefovir Cmax by 33% and AUC by 23%, as well as urinary recovery. The increase appears to be due to higher oral bioavailability, not a reduction in renal clearance of adefovir.' In an in vitro investigation, the antiviral effect of adefovir was unaltered and the renal proximal tubule accumulation of adefovir was inhibited by the presence of a NSAID. Adefovir is efficiently transported by the human renal organic anion transporter 1, and the presence of this transporter appears to mediate the accumulation of the drug in renal proximal tubules. The in vitro study suggests that the use of a NSAID with adefovir may potentially reduce the nephrotoxic potential of adefovir. Of course, NSAIDs are associated with nephrotoxicity of their own; therefore, further data on the interaction between NSAIDs and adefovir in humans are needed.
Ketorolac: (Moderate) Chronic coadministration of adefovir with nephrotoxic drugs, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity even in patients who have normal renal function. The use of adefovir with NSAIDs may be done cautiously. As stated in the current adefovir prescribing information, 'Ibuprofen (800 mg PO three times daily), when given concomitantly with adefovir dipivoxil, increased the adefovir Cmax by 33% and AUC by 23%, as well as urinary recovery. The increase appears to be due to higher oral bioavailability, not a reduction in renal clearance of adefovir.' In an in vitro investigation, the antiviral effect of adefovir was unaltered and the renal proximal tubule accumulation of adefovir was inhibited by the presence of a NSAID. Adefovir is efficiently transported by the human renal organic anion transporter 1, and the presence of this transporter appears to mediate the accumulation of the drug in renal proximal tubules. The in vitro study suggests that the use of a NSAID with adefovir may potentially reduce the nephrotoxic potential of adefovir. Of course, NSAIDs are associated with nephrotoxicity of their own; therefore, further data on the interaction between NSAIDs and adefovir in humans are needed.
lamiVUDine, 3TC: (Major) Patients who are concurrently taking adefovir with antiretrovirals (i.e., anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs)) are at risk of developing lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis. Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs alone or in combination with antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women; obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may also be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for hepatic disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Suspend adefovir in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations).
lamiVUDine, 3TC; Zidovudine, ZDV: (Major) Patients who are concurrently taking adefovir with antiretrovirals (i.e., anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs)) are at risk of developing lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis. Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs alone or in combination with antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women; obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may also be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for hepatic disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Suspend adefovir in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations).
lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with adefovir. Both tenofovir and adefovir are primarily excreted via the kidneys by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion. Concurrent administration may increase concentrations of both drugs resulting in additive nephrotoxicity. Additionally, in the treatment of chronic hepatitis B, tenofovir should not be administered in combination with adefovir to avoid multi-drug resistance. If coadministration is necessary, patients should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus, and urine glucose and protein. (Major) Patients who are concurrently taking adefovir with antiretrovirals (i.e., anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs)) are at risk of developing lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis. Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs alone or in combination with antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women; obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may also be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for hepatic disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Suspend adefovir in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations).
Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion (e.g., adefovir) may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems. Although such interactions remain theoretical, careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of metformin and/or the interfering cationic drug are recommended.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Patients who are concurrently taking adefovir with antiretrovirals like the protease inhibitors, are at risk of developing lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis. Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs alone or in combination with antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women; obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may also be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for hepatic disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Suspend adefovir in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations).
Mannitol: (Major) Avoid use of mannitol and adefovir, if possible. Concomitant administration of nephrotoxic drugs, such as adefovir, increases the risk of renal failure after administration of mannitol.
Maraviroc: (Moderate) Use caution and closely monitor for increased adverse effects during concurrent administration of maraviroc and adefovir as increased maraviroc concentrations may occur. Maraviroc is a substrate of multidrug resistance-associated protein (MRP2); adefovir is an inhibitor of MRP2. The effects of this transporter on the concentrations of maraviroc are unknown, although an increase in concentrations and thus, toxicity, are possible.
Meclofenamate Sodium: (Moderate) Chronic coadministration of adefovir with nephrotoxic drugs, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity even in patients who have normal renal function. The use of adefovir with NSAIDs may be done cautiously. As stated in the current adefovir prescribing information, 'Ibuprofen (800 mg PO three times daily), when given concomitantly with adefovir dipivoxil, increased the adefovir Cmax by 33% and AUC by 23%, as well as urinary recovery. The increase appears to be due to higher oral bioavailability, not a reduction in renal clearance of adefovir.' In an in vitro investigation, the antiviral effect of adefovir was unaltered and the renal proximal tubule accumulation of adefovir was inhibited by the presence of a NSAID. Adefovir is efficiently transported by the human renal organic anion transporter 1, and the presence of this transporter appears to mediate the accumulation of the drug in renal proximal tubules. The in vitro study suggests that the use of a NSAID with adefovir may potentially reduce the nephrotoxic potential of adefovir. Of course, NSAIDs are associated with nephrotoxicity of their own; therefore, further data on the interaction between NSAIDs and adefovir in humans are needed.
Mefenamic Acid: (Moderate) Chronic coadministration of adefovir with nephrotoxic drugs, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity even in patients who have normal renal function. The use of adefovir with NSAIDs may be done cautiously. As stated in the current adefovir prescribing information, 'Ibuprofen (800 mg PO three times daily), when given concomitantly with adefovir dipivoxil, increased the adefovir Cmax by 33% and AUC by 23%, as well as urinary recovery. The increase appears to be due to higher oral bioavailability, not a reduction in renal clearance of adefovir.' In an in vitro investigation, the antiviral effect of adefovir was unaltered and the renal proximal tubule accumulation of adefovir was inhibited by the presence of a NSAID. Adefovir is efficiently transported by the human renal organic anion transporter 1, and the presence of this transporter appears to mediate the accumulation of the drug in renal proximal tubules. The in vitro study suggests that the use of a NSAID with adefovir may potentially reduce the nephrotoxic potential of adefovir. Of course, NSAIDs are associated with nephrotoxicity of their own; therefore, further data on the interaction between NSAIDs and adefovir in humans are needed.
Meloxicam: (Moderate) Chronic coadministration of adefovir with nephrotoxic drugs, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity even in patients who have normal renal function. The use of adefovir with NSAIDs may be done cautiously. As stated in the current adefovir prescribing information, 'Ibuprofen (800 mg PO three times daily), when given concomitantly with adefovir dipivoxil, increased the adefovir Cmax by 33% and AUC by 23%, as well as urinary recovery. The increase appears to be due to higher oral bioavailability, not a reduction in renal clearance of adefovir.' In an in vitro investigation, the antiviral effect of adefovir was unaltered and the renal proximal tubule accumulation of adefovir was inhibited by the presence of a NSAID. Adefovir is efficiently transported by the human renal organic anion transporter 1, and the presence of this transporter appears to mediate the accumulation of the drug in renal proximal tubules. The in vitro study suggests that the use of a NSAID with adefovir may potentially reduce the nephrotoxic potential of adefovir. Of course, NSAIDs are associated with nephrotoxicity of their own; therefore, further data on the interaction between NSAIDs and adefovir in humans are needed.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Moderate) Chronic coadministration of adefovir with nephrotoxic drugs, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity even in patients who have normal renal function. The use of adefovir with NSAIDs may be done cautiously. As stated in the current adefovir prescribing information, 'Ibuprofen (800 mg PO three times daily), when given concomitantly with adefovir dipivoxil, increased the adefovir Cmax by 33% and AUC by 23%, as well as urinary recovery. The increase appears to be due to higher oral bioavailability, not a reduction in renal clearance of adefovir.' In an in vitro investigation, the antiviral effect of adefovir was unaltered and the renal proximal tubule accumulation of adefovir was inhibited by the presence of a NSAID. Adefovir is efficiently transported by the human renal organic anion transporter 1, and the presence of this transporter appears to mediate the accumulation of the drug in renal proximal tubules. The in vitro study suggests that the use of a NSAID with adefovir may potentially reduce the nephrotoxic potential of adefovir. Of course, NSAIDs are associated with nephrotoxicity of their own; therefore, further data on the interaction between NSAIDs and adefovir in humans are needed.
Memantine: (Moderate) Adefovir is eliminated renally by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion; coadministration of adefovir dipivoxil with drugs that reduce renal function or compete for active tubular secretion, such as memantine, may decrease adefovir elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems; therefore increasing serum concentrations of either adefovir and/or memantine may occur.
metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion (e.g., adefovir) may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems. Although such interactions remain theoretical, careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of metformin and/or the interfering cationic drug are recommended.
metFORMIN; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion (e.g., adefovir) may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems. Although such interactions remain theoretical, careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of metformin and/or the interfering cationic drug are recommended.
metFORMIN; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion (e.g., adefovir) may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems. Although such interactions remain theoretical, careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of metformin and/or the interfering cationic drug are recommended.
Methotrexate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methotrexate with adefovir due to the risk of additive nephrotoxicity as well as an increased risk of severe methotrexate-related adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor for adverse reactions. Adefovir and methotrexate are both nephrotoxic drugs; methotrexate is also renally eliminated. Coadministration of methotrexate with adefovir may result in decreased renal function as well as increased methotrexate plasma concentrations.
Midodrine: (Moderate) Adefovir is eliminated renally by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion; coadministration of adefovir dipivoxil with drugs that reduce renal function or compete for active tubular secretion, such as midodrine, may decrease adefovir elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems, thereby increasing serum concentrations of adefovir and/or midodrine. Coadministration of these drugs has not been studied, but caution is warranted.
Morphine: (Moderate) Adefovir is eliminated renally by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion; coadministration of adefovir dipivoxil with drugs that reduce renal function or compete for active tubular secretion, such as morphine, may decrease adefovir elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems, therefore increasing serum concentrations of either adefovir and/or these coadministered drugs.
Nabumetone: (Moderate) Chronic coadministration of adefovir with nephrotoxic drugs, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity even in patients who have normal renal function. The use of adefovir with NSAIDs may be done cautiously. As stated in the current adefovir prescribing information, 'Ibuprofen (800 mg PO three times daily), when given concomitantly with adefovir dipivoxil, increased the adefovir Cmax by 33% and AUC by 23%, as well as urinary recovery. The increase appears to be due to higher oral bioavailability, not a reduction in renal clearance of adefovir.' In an in vitro investigation, the antiviral effect of adefovir was unaltered and the renal proximal tubule accumulation of adefovir was inhibited by the presence of a NSAID. Adefovir is efficiently transported by the human renal organic anion transporter 1, and the presence of this transporter appears to mediate the accumulation of the drug in renal proximal tubules. The in vitro study suggests that the use of a NSAID with adefovir may potentially reduce the nephrotoxic potential of adefovir. Of course, NSAIDs are associated with nephrotoxicity of their own; therefore, further data on the interaction between NSAIDs and adefovir in humans are needed.
Naproxen: (Moderate) Chronic coadministration of adefovir with nephrotoxic drugs, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity even in patients who have normal renal function. The use of adefovir with NSAIDs may be done cautiously. As stated in the current adefovir prescribing information, 'Ibuprofen (800 mg PO three times daily), when given concomitantly with adefovir dipivoxil, increased the adefovir Cmax by 33% and AUC by 23%, as well as urinary recovery. The increase appears to be due to higher oral bioavailability, not a reduction in renal clearance of adefovir.' In an in vitro investigation, the antiviral effect of adefovir was unaltered and the renal proximal tubule accumulation of adefovir was inhibited by the presence of a NSAID. Adefovir is efficiently transported by the human renal organic anion transporter 1, and the presence of this transporter appears to mediate the accumulation of the drug in renal proximal tubules. The in vitro study suggests that the use of a NSAID with adefovir may potentially reduce the nephrotoxic potential of adefovir. Of course, NSAIDs are associated with nephrotoxicity of their own; therefore, further data on the interaction between NSAIDs and adefovir in humans are needed.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Moderate) Chronic coadministration of adefovir with nephrotoxic drugs, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity even in patients who have normal renal function. The use of adefovir with NSAIDs may be done cautiously. As stated in the current adefovir prescribing information, 'Ibuprofen (800 mg PO three times daily), when given concomitantly with adefovir dipivoxil, increased the adefovir Cmax by 33% and AUC by 23%, as well as urinary recovery. The increase appears to be due to higher oral bioavailability, not a reduction in renal clearance of adefovir.' In an in vitro investigation, the antiviral effect of adefovir was unaltered and the renal proximal tubule accumulation of adefovir was inhibited by the presence of a NSAID. Adefovir is efficiently transported by the human renal organic anion transporter 1, and the presence of this transporter appears to mediate the accumulation of the drug in renal proximal tubules. The in vitro study suggests that the use of a NSAID with adefovir may potentially reduce the nephrotoxic potential of adefovir. Of course, NSAIDs are associated with nephrotoxicity of their own; therefore, further data on the interaction between NSAIDs and adefovir in humans are needed.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Chronic coadministration of adefovir with nephrotoxic drugs, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity even in patients who have normal renal function. The use of adefovir with NSAIDs may be done cautiously. As stated in the current adefovir prescribing information, 'Ibuprofen (800 mg PO three times daily), when given concomitantly with adefovir dipivoxil, increased the adefovir Cmax by 33% and AUC by 23%, as well as urinary recovery. The increase appears to be due to higher oral bioavailability, not a reduction in renal clearance of adefovir.' In an in vitro investigation, the antiviral effect of adefovir was unaltered and the renal proximal tubule accumulation of adefovir was inhibited by the presence of a NSAID. Adefovir is efficiently transported by the human renal organic anion transporter 1, and the presence of this transporter appears to mediate the accumulation of the drug in renal proximal tubules. The in vitro study suggests that the use of a NSAID with adefovir may potentially reduce the nephrotoxic potential of adefovir. Of course, NSAIDs are associated with nephrotoxicity of their own; therefore, further data on the interaction between NSAIDs and adefovir in humans are needed.
Nelfinavir: (Major) Patients who are concurrently taking adefovir with antiretrovirals like the protease inhibitors, are at risk of developing lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis. Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs alone or in combination with antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women; obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may also be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for hepatic disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Suspend adefovir in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations).
Nevirapine: (Major) Patients who are concurrently taking adefovir with non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors are at risk of developing lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis. Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs alone or in combination with antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women; obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may also be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for hepatic disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Suspend adefovir in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations).
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Patients who are concurrently taking adefovir with antiretrovirals like the protease inhibitors, are at risk of developing lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis. Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs alone or in combination with antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women; obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may also be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for hepatic disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Suspend adefovir in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations).
Nitisinone: (Moderate) Monitor for increased adefovir-related adverse effects if coadministered with nitisinone. Increased adefovir exposure is possible. Nitisinone inhibits OAT1. Adefovir is an OAT1 substrate.
Non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors: (Major) Patients who are concurrently taking adefovir with non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors are at risk of developing lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis. Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs alone or in combination with antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women; obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may also be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for hepatic disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Suspend adefovir in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations).
Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs: (Moderate) Chronic coadministration of adefovir with nephrotoxic drugs, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity even in patients who have normal renal function. The use of adefovir with NSAIDs may be done cautiously. As stated in the current adefovir prescribing information, 'Ibuprofen (800 mg PO three times daily), when given concomitantly with adefovir dipivoxil, increased the adefovir Cmax by 33% and AUC by 23%, as well as urinary recovery. The increase appears to be due to higher oral bioavailability, not a reduction in renal clearance of adefovir.' In an in vitro investigation, the antiviral effect of adefovir was unaltered and the renal proximal tubule accumulation of adefovir was inhibited by the presence of a NSAID. Adefovir is efficiently transported by the human renal organic anion transporter 1, and the presence of this transporter appears to mediate the accumulation of the drug in renal proximal tubules. The in vitro study suggests that the use of a NSAID with adefovir may potentially reduce the nephrotoxic potential of adefovir. Of course, NSAIDs are associated with nephrotoxicity of their own; therefore, further data on the interaction between NSAIDs and adefovir in humans are needed.
Oxaprozin: (Moderate) Chronic coadministration of adefovir with nephrotoxic drugs, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity even in patients who have normal renal function. The use of adefovir with NSAIDs may be done cautiously. As stated in the current adefovir prescribing information, 'Ibuprofen (800 mg PO three times daily), when given concomitantly with adefovir dipivoxil, increased the adefovir Cmax by 33% and AUC by 23%, as well as urinary recovery. The increase appears to be due to higher oral bioavailability, not a reduction in renal clearance of adefovir.' In an in vitro investigation, the antiviral effect of adefovir was unaltered and the renal proximal tubule accumulation of adefovir was inhibited by the presence of a NSAID. Adefovir is efficiently transported by the human renal organic anion transporter 1, and the presence of this transporter appears to mediate the accumulation of the drug in renal proximal tubules. The in vitro study suggests that the use of a NSAID with adefovir may potentially reduce the nephrotoxic potential of adefovir. Of course, NSAIDs are associated with nephrotoxicity of their own; therefore, further data on the interaction between NSAIDs and adefovir in humans are needed.
Paromomycin: (Moderate) Chronic coadministration of adefovir with nephrotoxic drugs, such as aminoglycosides, may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function.
Pioglitazone; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Certain medications used concomitantly with metformin may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion (e.g., adefovir) may decrease metformin elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems. Although such interactions remain theoretical, careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of metformin and/or the interfering cationic drug are recommended.
Piroxicam: (Moderate) Chronic coadministration of adefovir with nephrotoxic drugs, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity even in patients who have normal renal function. The use of adefovir with NSAIDs may be done cautiously. As stated in the current adefovir prescribing information, 'Ibuprofen (800 mg PO three times daily), when given concomitantly with adefovir dipivoxil, increased the adefovir Cmax by 33% and AUC by 23%, as well as urinary recovery. The increase appears to be due to higher oral bioavailability, not a reduction in renal clearance of adefovir.' In an in vitro investigation, the antiviral effect of adefovir was unaltered and the renal proximal tubule accumulation of adefovir was inhibited by the presence of a NSAID. Adefovir is efficiently transported by the human renal organic anion transporter 1, and the presence of this transporter appears to mediate the accumulation of the drug in renal proximal tubules. The in vitro study suggests that the use of a NSAID with adefovir may potentially reduce the nephrotoxic potential of adefovir. Of course, NSAIDs are associated with nephrotoxicity of their own; therefore, further data on the interaction between NSAIDs and adefovir in humans are needed.
Plazomicin: (Moderate) Chronic coadministration of adefovir with nephrotoxic drugs, such as aminoglycosides, may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function.
Procainamide: (Moderate) Adefovir is eliminated renally by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion; coadministration of adefovir dipivoxil with drugs that reduce renal function or compete for active tubular secretion, such as procainamide, may decrease adefovir elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems, therefore increasing serum concentrations of either adefovir and/or these coadministered drugs.
Protease inhibitors: (Major) Patients who are concurrently taking adefovir with antiretrovirals like the protease inhibitors, are at risk of developing lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis. Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs alone or in combination with antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women; obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may also be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for hepatic disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Suspend adefovir in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations).
quiNIDine: (Moderate) Adefovir is eliminated renally by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion; coadministration of adefovir dipivoxil with drugs that reduce renal function or compete for active tubular secretion, such as quinidine, may decrease adefovir elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems, therefore increasing serum concentrations of either adefovir and/or these coadministered drugs.
quiNINE: (Moderate) Adefovir is eliminated renally by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion; coadministration of adefovir dipivoxil with drugs that reduce renal function or compete for active tubular secretion, such as quinine, may decrease adefovir elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems, therefore increasing serum concentrations of either adefovir and/or quinine.
Rilpivirine: (Major) Patients who are concurrently taking adefovir (a nucleotide analog) with antiretrovirals (i.e., anti-retroviral non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs)) are at risk of developing lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis. Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs alone or in combination with antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women; obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may also be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for hepatic disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Suspend adefovir in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations).
Ritonavir: (Major) Patients who are concurrently taking adefovir with antiretrovirals like the protease inhibitors, are at risk of developing lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis. Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs alone or in combination with antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women; obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may also be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for hepatic disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Suspend adefovir in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations).
Saquinavir: (Major) Patients who are concurrently taking adefovir with antiretrovirals like the protease inhibitors, are at risk of developing lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis. Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs alone or in combination with antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women; obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may also be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for hepatic disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Suspend adefovir in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations).
Streptomycin: (Moderate) Chronic coadministration of adefovir with nephrotoxic drugs, such as aminoglycosides, may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function.
Sulindac: (Moderate) Chronic coadministration of adefovir with nephrotoxic drugs, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity even in patients who have normal renal function. The use of adefovir with NSAIDs may be done cautiously. As stated in the current adefovir prescribing information, 'Ibuprofen (800 mg PO three times daily), when given concomitantly with adefovir dipivoxil, increased the adefovir Cmax by 33% and AUC by 23%, as well as urinary recovery. The increase appears to be due to higher oral bioavailability, not a reduction in renal clearance of adefovir.' In an in vitro investigation, the antiviral effect of adefovir was unaltered and the renal proximal tubule accumulation of adefovir was inhibited by the presence of a NSAID. Adefovir is efficiently transported by the human renal organic anion transporter 1, and the presence of this transporter appears to mediate the accumulation of the drug in renal proximal tubules. The in vitro study suggests that the use of a NSAID with adefovir may potentially reduce the nephrotoxic potential of adefovir. Of course, NSAIDs are associated with nephrotoxicity of their own; therefore, further data on the interaction between NSAIDs and adefovir in humans are needed.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Moderate) Chronic coadministration of adefovir with nephrotoxic drugs, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity even in patients who have normal renal function. The use of adefovir with NSAIDs may be done cautiously. As stated in the current adefovir prescribing information, 'Ibuprofen (800 mg PO three times daily), when given concomitantly with adefovir dipivoxil, increased the adefovir Cmax by 33% and AUC by 23%, as well as urinary recovery. The increase appears to be due to higher oral bioavailability, not a reduction in renal clearance of adefovir.' In an in vitro investigation, the antiviral effect of adefovir was unaltered and the renal proximal tubule accumulation of adefovir was inhibited by the presence of a NSAID. Adefovir is efficiently transported by the human renal organic anion transporter 1, and the presence of this transporter appears to mediate the accumulation of the drug in renal proximal tubules. The in vitro study suggests that the use of a NSAID with adefovir may potentially reduce the nephrotoxic potential of adefovir. Of course, NSAIDs are associated with nephrotoxicity of their own; therefore, further data on the interaction between NSAIDs and adefovir in humans are needed.
Tacrolimus: (Moderate) Tacrolimus, in the absence of overt renal impairment, may adversely affect renal function. Care should be taken in using tacrolimus with other nephrotoxic drugs, including adefovir. Assessment of renal function in patients who have received tacrolimus is recommended, as the tacrolimus dosage may need to be reduced.
Telavancin: (Moderate) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs such as adefovir may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of adefovir dipivoxil and tenofovir alafenamide may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with adefovir. Both tenofovir and adefovir are primarily excreted via the kidneys by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion. Concurrent administration may increase concentrations of both drugs resulting in additive nephrotoxicity. Additionally, in the treatment of chronic hepatitis B, tenofovir should not be administered in combination with adefovir to avoid multi-drug resistance. If coadministration is necessary, patients should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus, and urine glucose and protein.
Tipranavir: (Major) Patients who are concurrently taking adefovir with antiretrovirals like the protease inhibitors, are at risk of developing lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis. Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs alone or in combination with antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women; obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may also be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for hepatic disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Suspend adefovir in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations).
Tobramycin: (Moderate) Chronic coadministration of adefovir with nephrotoxic drugs, such as aminoglycosides, may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function.
Tolmetin: (Moderate) Chronic coadministration of adefovir with nephrotoxic drugs, such as nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity even in patients who have normal renal function. The use of adefovir with NSAIDs may be done cautiously. As stated in the current adefovir prescribing information, 'Ibuprofen (800 mg PO three times daily), when given concomitantly with adefovir dipivoxil, increased the adefovir Cmax by 33% and AUC by 23%, as well as urinary recovery. The increase appears to be due to higher oral bioavailability, not a reduction in renal clearance of adefovir.' In an in vitro investigation, the antiviral effect of adefovir was unaltered and the renal proximal tubule accumulation of adefovir was inhibited by the presence of a NSAID. Adefovir is efficiently transported by the human renal organic anion transporter 1, and the presence of this transporter appears to mediate the accumulation of the drug in renal proximal tubules. The in vitro study suggests that the use of a NSAID with adefovir may potentially reduce the nephrotoxic potential of adefovir. Of course, NSAIDs are associated with nephrotoxicity of their own; therefore, further data on the interaction between NSAIDs and adefovir in humans are needed.
Triamterene: (Moderate) Adefovir is eliminated renally by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion; coadministration of adefovir dipivoxil with drugs that reduce renal function or compete for active tubular secretion, such as triamterene, may decrease adefovir elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems, thereby increasing serum concentrations of adefovir and/or triamterene.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Adefovir is eliminated renally by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion; coadministration of adefovir dipivoxil with drugs that reduce renal function or compete for active tubular secretion, such as triamterene, may decrease adefovir elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems, thereby increasing serum concentrations of adefovir and/or triamterene.
Trospium: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of adefovir and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase adefovir and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
valACYclovir: (Moderate) Chronic coadministration of adefovir with nephrotoxic drugs, such as valacyclovir, may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function.
Vancomycin: (Moderate) Adefovir is eliminated renally by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion; coadministration of adefovir dipivoxil with drugs that reduce renal function or compete for active tubular secretion, such as parenteral vancomycin, may decrease adefovir elimination by competing for common renal tubular transport systems, thereby increasing serum concentrations of adefovir and/or vancomycin. Additionally, chronic coadministration of adefovir with nephrotoxic drugs, such as vancomycin, may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Renal function should be monitored closely and vancomycin doses should be adjusted according to vancomycin serum concentrations.
Voclosporin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of voclosporin and adefovir dipivoxil may result in additive nephrotoxicity. Monitor for renal toxicity if concomitant use is required.
Xanomeline; Trospium: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse effects from both medications if concomitant use of adefovir and trospium is necessary. Concomitant use may increase adefovir and trospium exposure. Both medications are eliminated via active tubular secretion and may compete with one another to impair elimination.
Zidovudine, ZDV: (Major) Patients who are concurrently taking adefovir with antiretrovirals (i.e., anti-retroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs)) are at risk of developing lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis. Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs alone or in combination with antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women; obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may also be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for hepatic disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Suspend adefovir in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations).


Adverse Reaction
elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatitis B exacerbation


There have been reports of severe acute hepatitis B exacerbation in patients following discontinuation of adefovir dipivoxil therapy. In clinical trials, up to 25% of patients who discontinued adefovir experienced a hepatitis exacerbation. The majority of these events occurred within 12 weeks of treatment discontinuation, were absent of HBeAg seroconversion, and presented as elevated hepatic enzymes (ALT at least 10-times upper limit of normal) in conjunction with re-emergence of viral replication. Most cases were self-limiting and resolved without re-initiation of treatment. However, there have been reports of severe hepatitis exacerbations that resulted in death. Patients with advanced liver disease or cirrhosis may be at higher risk for hepatic decompensation. Close monitoring of clinical signs and symptoms, including laboratory monitoring, is recommended for several months following treatment discontinuation. When appropriate, re-initiation of anti-hepatitis B treatment may be considered.


azotemia, bone fractures, bone pain, Fanconi syndrome, hypophosphatemia, myopathy, nephrotoxicity, osteomalacia, renal failure (unspecified)


Nephrotoxicity, characterized by delayed increases in serum creatinine (Scr) and decreases in serum phosphate concentrations, has developed in patients receiving chronic treatment with adefovir dipivoxil. Although increases in Scr do not specifically indicate that a patient's renal function will decline to the point of renal failure, renal insufficiency and renal failure (unspecified) have been reported, and serum creatinine should be regularly followed as a method to monitor renal function. The risk of nephrotoxicity is elevated in patients with underlying renal dysfunction and in patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic medications; therefore, it is recommended to calculate creatinine clearance in all patients prior to and during adefovir treatment. Patients found to have baseline renal insufficiency or who develop renal dysfunction during treatment may require dosage adjustments. Adefovir was associated with changes in renal function during a clinical trial involving pre- and post-liver transplant patients with chronic hepatitis B and risk factors for renal dysfunction. The study found 37% and 53% of pre-transplant patients experienced increases in Scr of at least 0.3 mg/dL from baseline at treatment Weeks 48 and 96, respectively. The percentage of post-transplant patients who experienced increases in Scr of 0.3 mg/dL or more from baseline at treatment Weeks 48 and 96 were 32% and 51%, respectively. Additionally, hypophosphatemia (less than 2 mg/dL) was observed in 1.3% of pre-transplant and 2.5% of post-transplant patients. The incidence of nephrotoxicity is lower in patients with adequate renal function. In two clinical studies involving patients with adequate baseline renal function, an increase in Scr of at least 0.5 mg/dL from baseline developed in 2% of patients after 96 weeks of treatment. With continued treatment, most patients did not have further increases in serum creatinine, with 3.2% to 9.2% of patients experiencing an increase in Scr of 0.5 mg/dL or more from baseline at treatment Week 240. At treatment Week 48, hypophosphatemia (up to 2 mg/dL) was not reported in any adefovir treated patient; hypophosphatemia data beyond Week 48 is not available. Of note, high rates of nephrotoxicity, manifest as azotemia and hypophosphatemia, were noted during initial clinical trials when higher doses (e.g., 60 to 500 mg per day) of adefovir were under investigation; a decrease in the rate of occurrence of nephrotoxicity is noted with the use of lower daily doses (10 mg per day), comparatively. Fanconi syndrome, proximal renal tubulopathy, and proximal renal tubulopathy-associated myopathy and osteomalacia (manifested as bone pain and potentially contributing to bone fractures) have been noted in postmarketing reports. Due to the voluntary nature of postmarketing reports, neither a frequency nor a definitive causal relationship can be established.


hepatomegaly, hepatotoxicity, lactic acidosis, steatosis


Lactic acidosis and severe hepatotoxicity, including fatal cases, have been reported in patients receiving nucleoside analogs such as adefovir. Typically, these adverse reactions present with symptoms such as enlargement of the liver (hepatomegaly) and fatty liver (steatosis), even in the absence of significant elevations in liver transaminases. Suspend treatment in patients who develop clinical or laboratory findings suggest lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity.


abdominal pain, diarrhea, dyspepsia, flatulence, nausea, pancreatitis, vomiting


Gastrointestinal (GI) adverse reactions have been associated with the use of adefovir dipivoxil. During clinical trials involving 522 chronic hepatitis B patients, the incidence of GI events in adefovir recipients were similar to those reported with placebo, including abdominal pain (9% vs. 11%, respectively), nausea (5% vs. 8%), flatulence (4% vs. 4%), diarrhea (3% vs. 4%), and dyspepsia (3% vs. 2%). In another study, vomiting was reported by pre-and post-liver transplant patients with chronic hepatitis B who received daily treatment with adefovir. Cases of pancreatitis have been reported post-marketing period. Due to the voluntary nature of post-marketing reports, neither a frequency nor a definitive casual relationship can be established.


asthenia, headache


Headache and asthenia were reported by 9% and 13%, respectively, of adefovir dipivoxil recipients during clinical trials. The incidence of these neurologic events were similar to those reported with placebo (10% vs. 14%, respectively).


pruritus, rash


In a 203 week open-label clinical trial, rash and pruritus were reported by pre-and post-liver transplant patients with chronic hepatitis B who received daily treatment with adefovir.


antimicrobial resistance


Antimicrobial resistance, due to the development of viral mutations, can occur during therapy with adefovir dipivoxil, potentially resulting in viral load rebound and hepatitis B exacerbation. Data from one 144 week clinical trial found patients with hepatitis B virus (HBV) DNA concentrations greater than 1000 copies/mL at treatment week 48 were at increased risk of developing resistance. Based on this information, health care providers are advised to consider modification of therapy in patients whose serum HBV DNA remains greater than 1000 copies/mL despite continued adefovir treatment. Additionally, patients with lamivudine resistant HBV should not receive adefovir monotherapy; instead, treat these patients with the combination of adefovir and lamivudine. Patients with unrecognized or untreated human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) may develop HIV resistance if exposed to adefovir; thus, health care providers are encouraged to offer HIV antibody testing to all patients prior to initiating therapy.


Description

Adefovir dipivoxil is an acyclic nucleotide analog approved for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infections in patients 12 years and older. The drug is administered once daily; however, the dosing interval must be expanded for patients with renal impairment. Monitor renal function for all patients during treatment, as nephrotoxicity is treatment-limiting toxicity of adefovir. In addition, the product labeling contains the following Black Box Warnings: nephrotoxicity; severe acute exacerbations of hepatitis; HIV resistance; lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis.

Mechanism Of Action

Adefovir dipivoxil is an acyclic nucleotide analog of adenosine monophosphate. It serves as a prodrug that is phosphorylated to the active metabolite adefovir diphosphate by cellular kinases. Adefovir diphosphate inhibits HBV DNA polymerase (reverse transcriptase) by competing with the natural substrate deoxyadenosine triphosphate for incorporation into viral DNA, ultimately resulting in DNA chain termination and inhibition of DNA replication. Adefovir may also stimulate natural killer cells and immune responsiveness through endogenous interferon-alpha production. Adefovir is active against the hepatitis B virus, including lamivudine-resistant hepatitis B viruses.
 
Resistance
In cell culture, the following reverse transcriptase substitutions demonstrated reduced susceptibility to adefovir: rtN236T (4- to 14-fold), rtA181V (2.5- to 4.2-fold), and rtA181T (1.3- to 1.9-fold). Adefovir remained active against recombinant HBV variants with the following lamivudine resistance-associated substitutions: rtL180M, rtM204I, rtM204V, rtL180M + rtM204V, rtV173L + rt180M + rtM204V). Adefovir also demonstrated in cell culture activity against HBV variants with entecavir resistance-associated substitutions: rt184G, rtS202I, rtM250V. HBV variants with DNA polymerase substitutions resulting in resistance to hepatitis B virus immunoglobulin (rtT128N and rtR153Q or rtW153Q) also were susceptible to adefovir in cell culture.
In patients with lamivudine-resistant HBV, consider administering adefovir in combination with lamivudine and not as adefovir monotherapy. To reduce the risk of resistance in patients on adefovir monotherapy, consider a treatment modification if serum HBV DNA concentrations remain above 1,000 copies/mL with continued treatment. Long-term study data (144 weeks) show that patients with HBV DNA concentrations greater than 1,000 copies/mL at treatment Week 48 were at greater risk of developing resistance than patients with serum HBV DNA concentrations less than 1,000 copies/mL. Resistance to adefovir can cause viral load rebound, which may result in exacerbation of hepatitis B infection, diminished hepatic function, hepatic decompensation, and possible fatal outcomes.

Pharmacokinetics

Adefovir dipivoxil is administered orally and is rapidly converted to adefovir. In vitro binding of adefovir to plasma or serum proteins is less than 4%, and the volume of distribution ranges from approximately 350 to 400 mL/kg. Adefovir is renally excreted by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion, with 45% of the dose recovered as adefovir in the urine over 24 hours at steady state. Plasma adefovir concentrations decline in a biexponential manner with a terminal elimination half-life of 7.5 +/- 1.7 hours.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes: None

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route

The approximate oral bioavailability of adefovir is 59%; absorption is unaffected when taken with food. After oral administration in chronic hepatitis B patients, the peak adefovir plasma concentration (Cmax) is 18.4 +/- 6.3 ng/mL and occurs between 0.58 to 4 hours (median 1.75 hours) after the dose is administered. Adefovir's area under the plasma concentration-time curve (AUC) is 220 +/- 70 ng x hour/mL.

Hepatic Impairment

No substantial alterations in adefovir pharmacokinetics are seen in patients with moderate to severe hepatic impairment compared to unimpaired patients.

Renal Impairment

In patients with moderate or severe renal impairment or with end-stage renal disease requiring hemodialysis, the adefovir Cmax, AUC, and half-life are increased compared to individuals with normal renal function. In patients with renal impairment, it is recommended that the dosing interval of adefovir be modified. A 4-hour period of hemodialysis removes approximately 35% of an adefovir dose.

Pediatrics

A study found the pharmacokinetic parameters (Cmax and AUC) of adefovir in 53 HBeAg positive hepatitis B pediatric patients with compensated hepatic disease (ages 12 to 17 years) to be comparable to those observed in adult patients.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific information within the How Supplied section.

Oral Administration


Administer without regard to food.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

10 mg/day PO.

Geriatric

10 mg/day PO.

Adolescents

10 mg/day PO.

Children

12 years: 10 mg/day PO.
7 to 11 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established; however, doses up to 0.25 mg/kg/day (Max: 10 mg/day) PO have been used off-label.
2 to 6 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established; however, doses up to 0.3 mg/kg/day (Max: 10 mg/day) PO have been used off-label.
younger than 2 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

Adefovir Dipivoxil 10mg Oral tablet

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

No dosage adjustment needed.

Renal Impairment

NOTE: Dosing adjustments are for adult patients only. No clinical data are available to make dosing adjustment recommendations for pediatric patients with renal insufficiency.
CrCl 50 mL/min or greater: No dosage adjustment needed.
CrCl 30 to 49 mL/min: 10 mg PO every 48 hours.
CrCl 10 to 29 mL/min: 10 mg PO every 72 hours.
CrCl less than 10 mL/min: Adefovir has not been evaluated in non-hemodialysis patients with CrCl below 10 mL/min; no dosing recommendation is available.
 
Intermittent hemodialysis
Patients should receive 10 mg PO every 7 days, administered after hemodialysis.
 
Peritoneal dialysis
Insufficient data are available to recommend a dosage of adefovir in patients undergoing continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD).

© 2026 Elsevier